# No Such Thing As A Fish - 31: No Such Thing As A Snake In My Pie

- Episode date: October 18, 2014
- Source: https://podscripts.co/podcasts/no-such-thing-as-a-fish/31-no-such-thing-as-a-snake-in-my-pie
- Slug: 31-no-such-thing-as-a-snake-in-my-pie

## Transcript

[00:00:00] We run it on QI a few years ago, which was, there's no such thing as a fish. There's no such thing as a fish. No, seriously, it's in the Oxford Dictionary of Underwater Life. It says it right there, first paragraph, no such thing as a fish. Hello, welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you from the QI offices in Covent Garden. My name is Dan Schreiber. I'm sitting here with Andy Murray, James Harkin and Anna Czazinski. And once again, we've gathered around the microphone with our four favourite facts

[00:00:33] from the last seven days. So here we go in no particular order. Let's do it. James, fact number one. My fact this week is that in the 17th century, there was a prophet called Dorothy Harling who would kill you of your sins by urinating on the afflicted part of your body. Wow. When you've got a sin, what's the afflicted part of your body? Well, if you'd been swearing, it could be your mouth. Right. Oh dear. If you'd stolen something, it could be your hands, I guess. Okay. If you thought a dirty thought. Your brain should piss in your ear. Into your ear. She would whip people first. She would whip you first to try and get rid of the sins,

[00:01:12] and then she'd urinate on you. And she was known as the Permanent Spring. This sounds more like a chapter from Fifty Shades of Grey. Does it? Oh yeah. Whipping, urinating on. I mean, that's all very bondage-based activity. It wasn't uncommon to use urine in a weird medical way, though, was it, around that time in the 17th century. So they had people who would smell or look at the colour, or even sometimes the flavour of people's urine in order to diagnose disease. And they had, you know, those colour wheels you get. They had a urine wheel? Like Pantone. Exactly. And they had 20 different colours of urine around the edge of it.

[00:01:49] Twenty shades of pee. And so it was all to do with the humours and whether your four humours were in order. But I think that would work. I think if your urine tasted sweet, then you might be diabetic. That's how they used to do that, right? Yeah. Yeah. Doctors used to diagnose you that way. It was called Thomas Willis, the man who discovered it. And it was in 1674. He said that diabetic people's urine was wonderfully sweet as if it were imbued with honey or sugar. And it was called Willis's disease for a long time, diabetes, because of him discovering it. Polilli said that you could use urine for a whole bunch of ailments, but stale urine mixed with

[00:02:25] ash could be rubbed on your baby for nappy rash, which sounds just like a really unpleasant way to be entering the world. I think there's like a Mayan tablet or something like that that says, this is about the patient. If all else fails, have him remove one sandal, urinate in it and drink the urine. And this was if everything else that the doctor prescribed didn't work, then that was the last thing you should try. Are the sandals full of holes? Good point. I don't understand how I would retain liquid in my sandals. So actually drinking urine has been thought by quacks for centuries as being a way of solving any problems that you have. I think we mentioned it on QI, that and we have a website address that we bought called drinkmyurin.co.uk. And if you go

[00:03:09] into that, then it takes you to the QI website. But what that means is because we still own it, all of the QI.com URLs can also be written as drinkmyurin.co.uk. So if you go into drinkmyurin.co.uk forward slash podcast, you'll find our podcast page. Speaking of drinking urine, the Sami people of Scandinavia, Northern Scandinavia, people thought for ages that they would feed magic mushrooms to their reindeer and then they would drink their reindeer urine. Yeah. So and then they get high off magic mushrooms, but without getting the poisonous effect and vomiting, which is what happens if you eat them directly, if you eat too much. And then this anthropologist came along and debunked this whole thing and said the Sami people did not drink reindeer urine. And then he

[00:03:50] went and interviewed a Sami person. So he wrote a whole book about how they don't. And then he met some Sami people and they were like, yeah, we do this all the time. So we had to write another book saying actually, they do it. I read a thing about the Koryak people in Siberia. They would take a sort of hallucinogenic psychedelic mushroom and the mushroom would send them insane into like beautiful psychedelic thing. The problem was it's quite expensive. And so it has a thing in it where when you urinate, it doesn't dilute the hallucinogenic in it. And so basically it comes out just as strong, just slightly diluted from the initial thing that you're taking. So the people who couldn't afford to take the mushroom would buy the urine off the people who just had a trip so

[00:04:31] that they could then have that. In Soviet Russia, they used to, if you had chewing gum, you would chew it until you didn't have the taste anymore. And then you'd pass that on to someone else to have the remnants of the taste. Really? Why? Because it was so rare. But if there was no taste left? Yeah, but I think I'm right in saying your mouth kind of gets used to the taste. So there's still some left. It does. And that's why there's always room for pudding. It's called Sensory Specific Satiety, S.S.S. And if you are really full of your main course, you think, oh, I can't eat any more of this, whatever it is you're having, risotto. But then someone says, hey, how about a profiterole? Your taste buds perk up and you think, oh, wait, maybe I can squeeze in a bit more

[00:05:06] food because it's a different flavor. It's a different flavor, right? Okay. I got a good urine factor. Turns out that we urinate 50% more than we drink per day. How can that be? That's what I thought. Because you're breathing in water vapor? No, it's because all the foods that get broken down. There's lots of water and food. Yeah, that's amazing. Yeah, that is good. Well done. Thanks. You all thought it was going to be juvious. Because we are half yetis and yetis of the milledita. The first obscenity law in England was in 1663 when poet Sir Charles Sedley got too drunk, shouted blasphemous things from a balcony in Covent Garden and urinated on the crowd below. And that was also the last law written in Norman French in the UK.

[00:05:52] That's a nice coincidence. We should get a balcony. Sigmund Freud viewed urinating in public as a sign of strong subconscious ambition. And if that's true, Central London on a Friday night is one of the most ambitious places in the world. I've got one more thing about you. So which do you want? Do you want the one about rabbits or the one about the future? Oh, the future. So as well as these doctors who were genuinely trying to work out how you could use urine to diagnose disease, there were people who practiced the art of uromancy, which is the art of telling the future using urine. And they were also known as piss profits a bit more vulgarly. But they took omens from different signs in it. So

[00:06:34] some people took omens from the color of the clients urine or from its taste, or they read the bubbles immediately after it hit the bowl. So you would have to to we in a in the divination bowl. And if there were large bubbles spread out, you were about to come into money. There were small bubbles packed together. It would be illness or someone you loved would die. And oh, no, someone would die just because I peed bubbles, small packs together bubbles. Yes. So be careful. Can you imagine? Wow. And it was very common in the 17th century. A lot of people slag them off. Ben Johnson said that they were turdy, facey, nasty, peaty, lousy, fartical rogues. Famously mature man.

[00:07:16] So this lady Dorothy Harling, she was thought to have been someone who was predicted in the book of revelations. There are a lot of these people called French prophets who came over. They were Huguenots and they would they claim that they were, you know, prophets from from the Bible. But I just really like prophets. I like, you know, people who think that they're their gods or yeah. But I love this guy. There was a guy called Cooper. I can't remember his first name. And he was living in London. He was unemployed. And some of his friends, some of his Indian friends told him that he looked and moved just like an ancient Indian goddess. And he thought, oh, well, that sounds quite good. Anyway, so he then went to Goodgerat. And he claimed to be this

[00:07:58] ancient goddess in human form. And now he lives in a holy saffron robe, living among 80 eunuchs. Why didn't he say to his friends, okay, great, whatever, let's have another drink. Who takes their friends comments on how they look that seriously? Yeah, but every time I saw my mom, I believe I was beautiful. Oh, you are beautiful. Okay, time for fact number two. And that is you. So my fact is that despite the fact that homosexuality is completely illegal in the South Sudan, a woman can have a female husband and a child can have a female father. So it makes sense because it's, it's true actually across parts of East Africa in various tribes. But one of the tribes is the Nuwe tribe. And if a woman

[00:08:50] is infertile, it's a way of her being able to continue her family line. So this infertile woman has a father who wants to pass on property to a son or a grandson. So the infertile woman marries another woman. And then this other woman has a secret lover whom she has some sex with gets pregnant. And then she has a child by that man. But that child is officially the child of the infertile woman and the other woman. And then everything like legal, societal, cultural, rights, everything like that. It's all the same as if they were a normal husband and wife marriage. It's openly accepted that that's what's done. And you know, it's enshrined in law. And there's this other weird thing as well, which is, I think this is another tribe in Kenya. It's

[00:09:30] the Kuria tribe, which is called daughter-in-law marriage. The Kuria tribe. Where they make the font. Yes, indeed. And they carry stuff back and forth. That's what I thought. Yeah, they were delivering stuff. Yeah, they deliver babies. No, the Kuria, K-U-R-I-A tribe. And they have this thing called daughter-in-law marriage, where an infertile woman marries another woman. And then she gives as a wife, the other woman, to her fictitious son. So this woman doesn't have any sons, but she marries a woman and then donates that woman to her made up son. And so that woman now counts as her daughter-in-law. And then that woman gets pregnant. And then that counts as her grandchild. It's a very confusing system. So it's like having your friend marry your imaginary

[00:10:19] friend. Yes, yes, exactly. Because having a daughter-in-law is a sign of status in certain African tribes. And again, confers certain cultural systems. There is problems if you can't have children yourself or if, but you want to keep a family line going. It's ingenious. There are lots of women in Albania who live as men, aren't there? Yeah. Is it a canoe-in-law or something like that? I think so, yeah. But actually, I say there are lots. There are very few now because it's a very old custom. And most of the remaining ones are in the 70s, 80s or even 90s. So, but they simply live as men. So they dress as men, they live as men. And do they pretend that they are men or does everyone know that they're women,

[00:10:56] but they just say- Everyone knows that they're a woman, but they have the status of a man. Yeah. All you have to do is dress as the man and then people accept that you are. Yeah. And that's just the way society works. You're not allowed to marry and you're known as a sworn virgin, I think. That's right. Yeah, yeah. But you are officially a man, even though you're a celibate man, you won't marry a woman. Okay. The canoe-in-law is in Albania, like Andy says, it's a very old-fashioned one. But I think there's one other thing, if I'm right, it's the same thing, where if your wife is having sex with another guy, you're allowed to kill them, but you have to kill them both at the same time with one bullet,

[00:11:34] and they have to be in the act at the time. Wow. Could you guys just line up there, please? Yeah. Stand still. I think that's right. That's a needlessly complicated workaround. You could just say you're not allowed to murder anyone. Yes. Yeah. It's a loophole, isn't it? It is a loophole. It almost sounds as if it happened once, and they went, oh no, no, it's legal. Do you read the small print? In France, you can marry dead people. Okay. It's called posthumous marriage. And the idea is that say I have a fiancé and she's going to inherit half of what I own, but then I die. Legally, she'd have no right to it, so they do the marriage after I've died, and then she legally is part of that family and owns half

[00:12:17] of the, or owns all of this stuff. That makes sense. These are all ingenious solutions to the natural problems of life and how it gets in the way of stability. Well, all the societal problems of life, mainly in the case of gender discrimination. And it's quite funny, the idea is like they really miss the point that women go to, you know, the lawmakers and say, all the gay people in Africa and say, we're really sick of this discrimination. The lawmakers go, okay, we'll let you pretend to be a man. Does that solve the problem? It's like- It's the suffragettes. No, not really. If the suffragettes have gone down that road, then we'd be living in 100% male Britain today. Yeah. All of you have the legal right to be men.

[00:12:53] You were talking about France, a French wedding custom in the Auvergne region in certain villages. It's called La Roti. So they have the wedding and then the married couple then go off to their bedchamber. And then it's traditional for the wedding guests to interrupt their bedchamber in the middle of the night, overturn their bedchamber, and then they fill up a chamber pot with all the leftover wine, champagne, food, sometimes toilet paper, apparently tampon soaked in tomato sauce, and they force the bride and groom to drink the contents of this chamber pot as a wedding ritual. It's supposed to signify the intimacy of their future lives together or something. Wow. Yeah. Romantic, right? What a great way to ruin someone's wedding night.

[00:13:32] I'm definitely going to start doing that to my friends. They also fill it with champagne and chocolate sometimes, which symbolizes urine and feces. Yeah. I have a bit of a worry about champagne representing urine because it has lots of bubbles in it. And presumably everyone's just going to die. Yeah, small packed together bubbles as well. Yeah. There's another wedding ritual and I really want the verification of it. So if anyone belongs to the Tidong tribe in Borneo, who's listening to this podcast or who knows of them, apparently if you get married in this tribe, you're not allowed to urinate or defecate or wash for three

[00:14:06] days after you get married. And it's just on this one person's blog who went and hung out with the Tidong tribe, but I couldn't find reference to it anywhere else. So three days you have to hold it in. That's amazing. I admire that. There has been a problem with this, Anna, because if the Tidong tribe in Borneo in the middle of the jungle are listening, how are they going to tell you because you're not on Twitter? That's a good point. I forgot that's the only way they communicate. Also, holding it in for three days just after a wedding is tough because you drink a lot of the wedding. That's so true. And it's going to be the most unsavory after those three days. It's the

[00:14:36] least romantic way again to end them as you both fighting your way to the toilet for an explosive session anyway. Have you heard of bride pie? This is an English wedding tradition. So you have wedding cake. Everyone knows about that. But traditionally in the 17th, 18th centuries around that time, you would also have bride pie. And this is a savoury dish and it had lots of little things in it like coxcombs, you know those from a cockerel, or lamb's testicles, or goose giblets. It sounds like a very unsavory pie to me. There was one recipe for a bride pie in Robert May's book, The Accomplished Cook, which included veal, sweetbreads, ox tongues, a pint of oysters, bacon, chestnuts, lemon juice, pickle berries, wine, a live snake for

[00:15:23] entertainment purposes, more oysters, and an onion. I always find my pies aren't entertaining. Dear Melton Mowbray, I was most disappointed on getting to the end of my pie to find you had left out the live snake. Please, can you rectify this situation? Marriage is in Sudan. Do you remember that famous guy who married a goat? Oh yeah, he had to, didn't he? Yeah, he was he was caught in the ecla-grante, the lector. And they said, well, in order to preserve the honour of the goat who was called Rose, he had to marry her. And Rose unfortunately died about a year later after she swallowed a plastic bag. How convenient for the man. In India, people sometimes marry trees, don't they? Why would you marry a tree? It's an astrological thing. So in certain

[00:16:17] parts of India, you are manglik if you're born on a certain day of the month, which means that astrologically you have bad luck. And in marriage, it means that you're likely to be married to a lot of different husbands, either they'll die or you'll get divorced. And the way to counterbalance that is in a ceremony which is called arc viva or kum viva, where you marry a tree or an urn. And that's your first marriage. And so that means you do the full ceremony and that means you've done marriage number one, now you can do marriage number two. And I think the former Miss World of 1990 was a tree. She did this in I think 2003 or 2004, because she was very superstitious and she was born under this sign. And the idea is that after you get married,

[00:16:59] you then chop down the tree or smash the urn. Not to be recommended with genuine husbands. So bad for the tree, though. Yeah, and the trees delight, you're going to marry a beautiful woman. It's the wedding night. I'm so excited. Excuse the guy with the axe approach. Okay, time for fact number three. And that is my fact. My fact this week, it's a discovery that Tommy Flowers, the man who was responsible for the first ever, I guess the first ever computer, you could call it Colossus, which was designed during World War Two. It's that when they were pushing forward the idea that the Colossus should be made, it kept blowing up because it was made

[00:17:42] of 100, 1500 different valves kept blowing up every time they turned it on. And they said this can't work. And he was convinced it could work. He worked out that by turning it on and off, that that's what was blowing it up. So the first ever bit of IT advice was to not turn it off, then turn it back on again. That's brilliant. That's really funny. So this was Tommy Flowers. Tommy Flowers. Yeah, Tommy Flowers used to work for the post office. So he designed this thing. He put it forward, they said no to it. After they said no to it, he solved the problem. And then they said no to it again, because it just took up too much space and it was going to take a year to make. So he just went ahead with it anyway as a kind of half secret project, which is amazing

[00:18:18] half secret project to have because it was the size of a room in Bletchley. I don't know how you hide that, I don't know. Yeah, in Bletchley, among people whose job it is to find out any secrets. Literally the worst place in the world to try and keep the secret. That's such a good point. So funny. Yeah. Well, we found the oldest computer ever. Well, what's always cited as the oldest computer ever was only discovered in, I think it was 1902. I want to say anyway, early the early 20th century was that ancient Greek computer from the second century BC, which is called the Antikythera. Yeah. Is that definitely a computer, do we think? Everyone always refers to it as a computer. So it's an unbelievably complex system of cogs,

[00:18:59] which if you spin a handle on it, which correctly show you the rotation of all the planets that have been discovered at the time, which was five planets, I think, and could predict a lunar eclipse and a solar eclipse. And they didn't make anything nearly as complicated as that for another 1500 years after it. If anyone listening to this is thinking, oh, look into that later, google it right now while you remember. Or maybe after the show. Just press pause and check it out, because it's the most extraordinary looking item and it's so out of place and time. That's the thing. You look at it and it's like all those books that used to come out back in the 70s by Eric von Daniken and stuff saying, oh, there were ancient batteries and stuff. And you and you look

[00:19:35] at it and go, no, of course not. This is this is completely falsified. This is the real deal. This is a thing that just it's so complicated. It's insane. It's insane. I'm calling it. I think that's a computer. The word computer used to refer to someone who just worked out when Easter was. Really? Yeah, they would have a monk whose job it was to work out all the dates and all their feasts and stuff like that. Obviously used to be in the main one and they were called computers. If you if you try turning him off and then turning back on again. I read that the colossus was actually dismantled. A bunch of them were dismantled. I think eight of the 10 and all of the parts that made it up went into the spares of post office systems again. So a large part. And

[00:20:15] apparently those are still being used today. So a large part of the postal service is still used being used using parts from colossus, the very first computer that explains a lot. A couple of years ago at a QI recording, we had some charity guests and one of the people I met there was he ran the he ran the computers, which controlled a lot of trains all over the UK. And he said they run on every system that you can imagine. There are still trains running on MS DOS in Britain today. And there are ones which run on apples. And when they first built the computing systems, a lot of the levers for the points changing and things like that, they use parts from old RAF planes and levers and things like that.

[00:20:53] Amazingly cool hodgepodge way of doing it. The problem with that is of course that when you have things going wrong, you don't have the parts to replace them because of such antiquated systems. And also if you had someone who had to fix a computer system and it's written in some old code that no one does anymore, then you're completely screwed. MS DOS is going to come back James. Is it? C colon slash slash. Yes. Do you know who wrote the, do you remember the opening music for Microsoft when your computer would turn on that music that it would make? That one. It was exactly that. Yeah. Do you know who wrote that? Is it Brynina? Yeah. No, there wasn't that one actually. Oh right. I couldn't tell which one that one was that James was doing. He wrote,

[00:21:34] Brynina wrote the one that went. Sounds like him. He got given a list of about 100 words, descriptive words saying it needs to be sexy, informative, exciting, ambitious, all these words and it needs to be in 0.75 seconds or something like that or 3.4 seconds. And so the great secret of it was that he wrote it on a Mac. Oh really? Yeah. Really? The first laptop was sold in 1982. They were selling them door to door. They were priced around $20,000 in today's money. So pretty expensive things. They were pretty big by 11 pounds. But the main problem, the reason people didn't want to buy them is because they had a keyboard on them. And like big executives who worked in offices thought that typing stuff was something that

[00:22:25] would be done by secretaries, not by themselves. And so they really resisted having anything that had a keyboard on it. That's really funny. That's an indicator. That's incredible. Computers have changed quite a lot. I was reading in the news just this week. They have a supercomputer that read 100,000 scientific papers in two hours and Cross referenced all of them against each other and found completely new types of biology. Whoa. I know. Really? It's quite complicated to explain what it was. But it was something like they were looking for a specific compound and they looked for mentions of it in all these 100,000 papers and Cross referenced them against each other. And they found new types of these compounds that they didn't know existed before or something

[00:23:08] like that anyway. That's absolutely unbelievable. I know. I can't really work out what it means. I have to say. No, I'll post it on my Twitter feed if people want to read that. But it's absolutely amazing. So I was looking into code breaking during World War II. The guy who invented who came up with enigma, Arthur Sherbius, didn't know where he'd come up with. He died in 1929 in a carriage accident, I think, before he knew that it was being put to that kind of use. But he also invented the electric pillow. Sorry, what's an electric pillow? I assume. So he patented a way of transmitting heat through various objects. And so I think it's like an electric blanket just to keep your head really hot. I don't know why you bought that,

[00:23:44] actually. Because that's the one problem, isn't it, that pillows get too hot? You turn the pillow over and the other side's even hotter. Okay, time for our final fact of the show, and that is Andy Murray. Hello, my fact is that a couple of botanists from Q Gardens recently checked a £1.29 bag of porcini mushrooms from the supermarket, and they found three species which were previously unknown to science. That's really cool. Yeah, they thought they'd run it through a DNA sequencer. As you do. They do that before they eat all of their meals. It's a bit like horse meat in lasagna kind of thing, is it? Like they thought they were porcini, but actually they didn't. No, it's like unicorn lasagna. Yeah, give it a go. That's so weird. So does that mean we're missing them all?

[00:24:36] Because they just happen to be botanists. We've all probably eaten mushrooms that are completely unknown to science. So they got to name them, which is cool. You don't often get to name three species. What do they call them? They call them Latin names, which translate as white beef liver, delicious cattle liver fungus. And the third one just means edible. Ran out of ideas. One of the people who has a lot of animals named after them who's alive, there's an explorer in Venezuela called Charles Breua Correas, and he has a lot of animals attributed to him. Partially because in Venezuela, there's so many undiscovered species that any time he goes to a new one of the tabletop mountains, he just discovers tons of new species. It's so diverse

[00:25:23] up there as well. They say that if you're on the top of one of these tabletop mountains, if you have two bodies of water literally meters apart from each other, the fish inside this one will be a complete different species of the fish inside of the one sitting beside it. That's how varied and so are you talking about the Andes, did you say? Because the orchids that are in the Andes, the Ecuadorian Andes, they have more orchids than anywhere else on the planet that are endemic, only found there. And one botanist called Lou Jost found four new species of orchid in a single day all hidden in the same patch of moss. Wow, isn't that amazing? There was a new species of chameleon found in Tanzania, and it was found after a snake spat out a still undigested specimen in the feet

[00:26:03] of a British scientist. There's a snake there. He's like, Oh, no, there's a snake. And then it sort of vomits up a chameleon and goes, Oh, that's a new one. I haven't seen that before. That's incredible. That's like, that happens all the time, it seems to these sort of the zoologists and stuff. There was the guy who discovered a new species of monkey that fell into his notebook. Oh, yeah. It wasn't monkey, it was a new species of frog, the dark frog that fell into his notebook as he was pressing like a flower. Leave it for three days and then show it to my teacher. My favorite species discovery is a really exciting discovery in 2010 of a species called the Australopithecus sediba, which is a type of hominid, a new type of hominid they found.

[00:26:43] And basically this guy Lee Berger is a paleo anthropologist, and he was in South Africa on a paleontological dig looking for fossils and new species. So while he was doing this, his nine year old son nearby, Matthew, was playing with the dog and tripped over a clavicle and jawbone which turned out belonged to a new species of hominid and brought it back to his dad. He was obviously like, shut up son, I'm not, I'm busy now, go away, come back later. Turned out he discovered a new human basically. That's incredible. Okay, so this is, I really like this. We don't know for sure how many species of gerbil there are. Oh, that's great. We know of 95, but I think no one's properly looked into it. Like with so many species, animals, we have no idea

[00:27:26] how many there are. Among the 95 known species of gerbil are Wagner's gerbil, as well as cheesemans, the South African hairy footed, Swalvies, Pleasant, Burton's, Julian's, Vivacious, and Regenbach's. Pleasant, I like Pleasant gerbil. Pleasant gerbil. Yeah, I don't believe such a thing exists. Gerbils. I think I feel about gerbils like you feel about mushrooms. Oh, yeah? Yeah. Won't want them on a pizza. Not too many of them, no. They have an indefinable aura of death around them. Is that a fact? No. I mean, that's what James thinks about mushrooms. Oh, right. Okay, got it. On the subject of gerbils, finding stuff in food. There was a guy in Kidlington, which is quite near where I'm from in Oxfordshire recently, who bought online from Tesco's a pack

[00:28:06] of Hovis sliced bread. And there's just the best picture of it. So he found a whole mouse inside the bread. And it was a sort of, it looks like something fossilized, but it's this complete mouse. And it took about four slices of bread, but without a tail. And he'd already eaten some. So it was the genuine. I found half a maggot in my food. Premier foods who made the bread admitted it had failed to ensure all stages of food production were protected against contamination. Wow. The food standards authority allows up to 20 maggots per 100 grams of mushrooms before it's a problem. And 75 mites before 20, 20 maggots per 100 grams of mushrooms. It is quite a lot, isn't it? I suppose mushrooms, dried mushrooms are very light. So

[00:28:51] 100 grams is quite a lot. It's not dried. It's drained. Okay. So just normal mushrooms. There's a species of mushroom named recently called phallus druzii. And that was named after a guy called Bob Druze. And obviously phallus, because it's shaped like a penis. And so this basically is named Bob Druze's penis. Wow. Name of the thing. Why does someone really not like Bob Druze? No, it was in his honor. They were friends of his. And he said, in an interview with a newspaper, he said, I am utterly delighted. The funny thing is that it is, I'm sorry. This is going to go wrong. No. He said, I am utterly delighted. The funny thing is that it is the second smallest mushroom. I can't do this. Do you need someone else to read it out for you?

[00:29:40] I might do. Sorry. I don't have to read this because I keep laughing. Bob Druze said, I am utterly delighted. The funny thing is that it's the second smallest known mushroom in this genus. And it grows sideways, almost limp. Okay, there you go. That's amazing. Yeah, but he was delighted that it was named after him. It also emits a foul odor and attracts plants. Well, I understand why so please. The mushroom on the other hand. Is there a rose named after June Whitfield? Oh, yes. In the catalogue description, it says, it's good and a bed, but best up against a wall. Okay, that's it. That's all of our facts. Thanks so much, everyone, for listening. If you want to

[00:30:35] get in contact with any of us, you can do so via the Twitter account at QI podcast, which we are logged into, except for Anna. So you can send us whatever you think and we'll answer it. Otherwise, you can get us on our individual Twitter handles. I'm on at Shriverland, James, at X shaped, Andy, at Andrew Hunter M, the tree. Five E's at the end there. And Anna, you can email podcast at qi.com. Yes. Okay. And so yeah, that's it. We'll be back again next week. If you go to drinkmyurin.co.uk slash podcast, you can see all the previous episodes for no such thing as a fish. And we'll be back again next week with another collection of our four favorite things that we found out from the past seven days. Okay, see you then. Goodbye.
