# No Such Thing As A Fish - 482: No Such Thing As Parachuting Into Hollyoaks

- Episode date: June 9, 2023
- Source: https://podscripts.co/podcasts/no-such-thing-as-a-fish/482-no-such-thing-as-parachuting-into-hollyoaks
- Slug: 482-no-such-thing-as-parachuting-into-hollyoaks

## Transcript

[00:00:00] Hi everyone, welcome to this week's episode of No Switch Thinkers of Fish, where we are joined by one of our favorite favorite people in the world, Rosie Jones. Now those of you in the UK will not need to hear an introduction for Rosie because she is one of the great comedians of our time. Any of you who've watched QI, which I know is a lot of you will recognize her. She's been on all sorts of stuff. She kind of came into the limelight on the last leg and worked on the Paralympic. She'll hear a lot about that in this show. She's a writer as well. She wrote for the Netflix show Sex Education. She's written a brilliant children's book called

[00:00:38] the Amazing ED Eckhart, which is about an 11 year old with cerebral palsy. She's just an all-around, very, very funny person, and I really, really hope you'll enjoy this week's show. I'm absolutely certain you will. It's one of my favorites that we've ever done, I think. If you want to see Rosie in real life, then I think her tour has, I think it's literally just started maybe this week. And if you want to go and see that, you can go to rosyjonescomedy.com and all the dates are up there. rosy is our OSIE and that's all to say really.

[00:01:09] I really hope you enjoy this show with rosy and on with the podcast. Hello and welcome to another episode of no such thing as a fish, a weekly podcast coming to you from the QI offices in Hobern. My name is Dan Schreiber, I am sitting here with James Harkin, Andrew Hunter Murray, and Rosie Jones. And once again, we have gathered around the microphones with our four favorite facts from the last seven days and in no particular order, here we go. Starting with fact number one, that is my fact. My fact this week is that the world's greatest

[00:01:56] Paralympic equestrian with 14 gold medals under his belt is also allergic to horses. That's not his Paralympic qualification. That's not the disability that means, okay, okay. Absolutely, no, it's not. So, yeah, this is an extraordinary guy called Lee Pearson who has over the years 114 gold medals a bunch of bronze and silver along the way as well. And he's just an amazing character, generally. I'll mention a

[00:02:27] couple of things, but I'm really excited to ask whether or not you've met him, because I know you've been to the Paralympics, right? But so he's the kind of guy who says, like, my training is curry malibu and coke, and he loves to party, and he's got a life story, which is, you know, he was born and put into a broom cupboard as soon as he was born. We've got, okay, we've got to, yeah. Can I take this? So he was born with a condition which I've never heard of before. It's called a thyrographed griposis multiplex congenitor. I think I've said that right.

[00:02:58] I think that was known when he was born and he wasn't looked after especially well by the hospital he was in. So he was put into a cupboard for a few days in a crib thing and his mum was heavily sedated so that they didn't know she was trying to find out where he was when she eventually came around. And as a result, he has no muscles in his arms, so he does the dressage with his shoulders. That's what he pulled out of control. And he got into horse riding because he couldn't ride a bike. So that's the basics. He's, sorry, is he British? Oh, is he? Yeah, he is.

[00:03:30] Yeah, he's also gay. And as a result, the headline on the story that I read was out of two closets and then to parallel a big history. Yeah, yeah. That's amazing. But so just to end the room cup of story is that he's's left there for three days finally the dad comes to visit the mum It's where's my baby and they go find the baby and they half kind of think they're gonna find a dying baby But he's doing okay and the mum has to play it cool because for some reason

[00:03:57] She just wanted to not make a big deal out of it Wearing that they might then take him away because of her emotion and so so, yeah, and so he should have died according to the nurses. So his life story from the get-go is just a phenomenal moment. And he was kind of a young kid who experienced a lot of interesting moments along the way. Like there's a story that Margaret Thatcher carried up, the staircase at 10 Downing Street when he was being presented an award when he was six years old for children of courage.

[00:04:25] So he's always been sort of in the limelight and he's a huge advocate of gay residents. Yeah. Sorry. But yeah, he's, you know, when the Paralympics were going to be happening in Russia, he wanted to go and explicitly talk about gay rights there. It was a really cool guy, he seems. He is amazing. And yeah, I've met him because I've been to two parallel inputs now, because before I was a comedian, I was a research in Tally show in 2016 and went to Rio again with a lot of slag, but this that's not a fact, but I just want to say I have both I think credible emotional journeys,

[00:06:05] because I've been disabled all my life. I don't mind it. I love the life and the world I created. But it can be exhausting going into rooms all day, o'r cymdeu eich sosden, goin yn tew rwynt, o ddei ebridau, o'n ymw'r normalu ddei ebridau, o'n ydymw'r seibol persen. both paradise, where that chilly, it felt rainbow-bottled, you look, we're here, it's so churned in motion or feeling, turn out that we're not alone, and we're in the old together. Yeah, amazing. For what I wanted to say was, and that lead up both games and he is brilliant.

[00:07:18] We once interviewed him and he was naked in bed. interview him and he was naked in bed like a dude not cabbage. I like it. He just sounds so cool. I love that he learnt to ride on horses, not on the horse, but on a donkey. That was his first experience. Yeah, a donkey called Sally. In ancient China, no, not ancient China, but early modern China, the women polo players would

[00:07:50] play on donkeys. So the male polo players were playing horses and the women were playing donkeys. And it was because it's quite a high status thing. It was like very posh people who would play. And they just thought it was safer really because you close it to the ground. Yeah. Right. And I guess that's why you practice to do your equestrian on on donkeys as well because it's the slower and closer to the ground. Yeah. There is a lot of horse allergy in Paralympic athletes. Is there a horse riding athletes? Yeah. There's Sophie Wells. She won silver in 2012. She's allergic to horses. But I read that and I read the article with her that said,

[00:08:26] because she was allergic to horses, her mother had to brush down the pony when she was a child. It does sound to me like she's like, oh no, I can't. I can't muck her out. I can't brush her down on allergic. I'm all the time allergic to dorsh.

[00:08:40] Yeah, making birds, I can't. The other thing about her selfie wells is she went to school at some work called the Robert Pattinson Academy. Oh really? No, it's great. It's amazing. Only open at Twilight. Oh, great. And it's named after Sir Robert Pattinson, who was an MP for Grantham in the 1920s.

[00:09:01] Margaret Tatch has all constituency. Yeah, strongly. Between Proud and Piccrafting. Margaret Tatch is our constituency. Strong link between Proud and Pick that charge. Margaret Tatch. Um, um, Sophie Wells, the rival of Sophie Wells, so Sophie Wells, one silver in 2012, her rival who took gold was called Michael George. Now, if my surname was Michael,

[00:09:16] no, if my surname was George, and her son, I'm not sure I call him Michael. Why? Because George Michaels. Oh, I was doing that to my name. I'm thinking it's like a George Michael reference. I didn't pick that up. If they sit next to each other, they'd be a palindrum.

[00:09:29] Yeah. You didn't pick up on someone called Michael George having a name like George Michael? No. I did it. No, it's not. Am I the only one here? No, I did that.

[00:09:38] Oh, thank you. I was so much. I first thought was, whatari and Kriya... It was in that just happened. I went to the Sydney Paralympics. Did you? Yeah. It was awesome.

[00:09:57] I don't actually have much memory. We sat in Homebush, which is the big stadium that was built for it. And it wasn't... The Paralympics wasn't a big deal in the country. It's sort of the Olympics was such a big deal. Yeah. 2000. 2000, and I remember on the day, my impressions of it were, the stadium was virtually empty. Yeah.

[00:10:14] It was a lot of schooled excursions, which is what we were on, and the music that they were playing over the sound system. And these were all people doing their big Olympic events, were kid songs like, Roro, Roro, you're boat and stuff. And I just remember thinking, it was that show, the Rowing Event. That's absolutely good. Good motivation. But I just remember sitting there thinking,

[00:10:31] these are professional athletes who've spent four years getting to this point and they've got nursery rhymes playing. It was really odd. And now it's kind of like the opening, closing ceremonies will have cold play and they'll have Michael Drog, Michael Drog. opening closing ceremonies will have cold play and they'll have Michael Draudsch, Michael Draudsch. David whispered, ''Kerle's.'' And the first of Poverland's eight games were the home in 1960 and they had so few games like unfortunately no longer happened.

[00:11:11] My favourite was a suboclut dark cherry. Dark cherry, really girl. Yes, exactly what it sounds like. It was archery, but... In a pub. Every one was strong. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'd like that for them to get down to zero. That's a great idea. But we're both an album. But what's crazy is archery has a very big, effectively

[00:11:54] a large dartboard, doesn't it? So that's making archery pen times harder. It's suddenly your place of aim is a dartboard. Like that's, oh yeah. You've got less surface area for. Was it the size is a dartboard. Like that's, oh yeah. You've got less surface area for... Was it the size of a dartboard, I was thinking so. Oh, I thought it was literally a dartboard. Yeah, yeah.

[00:12:13] If your normal arrow for an archery, if you find that it's something the size of a dartboard, it's gonna go in numerous different numbers at the same time. That's what I was confused about, but you've raised a really good point. What if it was bigger? I was reading about visually impaired skiing, which I think confused about, but you've raised a really good point. What if it was big? I was reading about visually impaired skiing, which I think is amazing, because you're skiing down

[00:12:29] and then there's someone else who's skiing in front of you and they're attached by Bluetooth, so they're telling you what's coming all the way down and then you have to ski behind them. Wait, so they're not attached physically? They're not physically attached, they're a guide, and they have like headphones, but like like how hard is it to attach your headphones to your phone by bluetooth? That must be terrifying to just like your bluetooth is now disconnected.

[00:12:56] Oh fuck! What have you been connected to somewhere else? Getting the wrong information? What? I just think that must be absolutely terrifying. Visual impairment is such an interesting territory about how there's assists just for that tiny bit of guidance. So for swimming, there's a thing called the taper where when you're coming, they'll tap a swimmer on the head to let them know that the end is coming up. But I think that's because it's so basically it's the swimmer who is visually impaired, you can just swim at full-pelt and you'll know that the end's coming up. But I think that's because it's so basically as the swimmer, who is visually impaired,

[00:13:26] you can just swim at full-pelt and you'll know that the end's coming up. So you don't have this uncertainty ahead of you. Yeah. But I think that has a big responsibility on the tapet. Absolutely. When you've got to get that in one. You've got to get that back on it. Yeah, exactly.

[00:13:37] And you have to agree what the thing is before you start the race. What the distance is. I'm sure they do. I'm sure they do. I'm not just winging it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So far! So I'm gonna try and tap you one centimed

[00:13:48] before the edge of the year. But yeah, that's what I was in. Incredible, sure. William, and William, and they had no arms. Oh, yes. And no arm. Oh yes. And no legs. And he's way of stopping in the pool was literally to hit him.

[00:14:17] Oh. So good. So good. For the end of it, a much of a brain damage. Oh. As you were. Was he wearing like a helmet or something? No.

[00:14:31] Oh my god. No. It's amazing. Also, what I love about the private lane patches, all the different groups. Yes. That's a million groups and they group them on ability and I think that's why a little bit more than that in place because you know that everyone in that race is the same sort of ability.

[00:15:11] Oh yeah, I didn't know about the classification thing. And it's why there are so many events as it were. Yeah. Because you've got ten classes of disability from the least to the most impaired. Well yeah, but we get a boat, you get deep and collected as far as women, deep, as far as I've run, and you just need it

[00:15:35] because you cannot have a virtually impaired person that's the one I'm pure. You can't have someone with no arms legs against someone who's allergic to horses. I think it's right. So within class seven or whatever it is, there will be different kinds of impairments. So you might have someone who's got a limb which is shorter or someone who's got impaired muscle power or someone who's shorter, but they have been assessed at being the same level of it. It's a nice answer.

[00:16:06] And what it means is the winner is whoever's the best on the day. Yeah, I like to set up frightful, re-worked, been frightful, re-worked. So obviously, the parallel inputs are concrete, competing, they get in touch. Mae'r unrhyw i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r cymryd i'r was terrible, horrible, terrible. And then there was anyone with like, Amy, Abel, I get it wrong. You're not our groom.

[00:16:56] That I think is the spirit of the parallelism is really right there. You know, officially in Pat, Pat's on. Yeah, that's so good. You're officially in Pat! Pat! Oh! Yeah, thank you. Thank you. Stop the podcast! Stop the podcast!

[00:17:16] Everyone, we'd like to let you know that this episode of No-Sooch Things As A Fish is sponsored by No-Sooch Things As A Fish! Ah! James, it's true. We finally inceptioned ourselves. What? Well, more specifically, we are sponsored by Clubfish, which is a wonderful, secret place beyond a velvet rope, where you can get all sorts of goodies. That's right. Clubfish.

[00:17:39] If you are not a member of Clubfish, you're missing out. Basically, if you don't like listening to ads, like this one, you go to Clubfish. And if you sign up for just a couple of quid a month, I think it's two or three pounds a month, it's small. You get ad-free episodes, and the other thing you get, which is really fun, is bonus content. Yeah, we do things like drop as a line, which is delving deep into our mailbag of lovely listeners who never send's anything insulting whatsoever.

[00:18:06] It's always, oh, you've never got anything wrong. We talk about those things. We have bonus compilations of things that didn't fit in the normal episode. We have a very cool thing called Meet the Elves where we have a chat with one of our younger colleagues who are all very jealous of because of their youth. It's mostly, I us asking them, why is your skin so nice? Basically, Clubfish is really fun to be a part of. If you enjoy fish and you can find room for a little bit more of it in your life, then all you need to do is go to what's that website James? No such thing as a fish.com forward slash Apple if you're an Apple user and no such thing

[00:18:43] as a fish.com forward slash Patreon if you are not an Apple user That is right. Just go to know such things a fish.com forward slash either Apple or Patreon We would love to see you there come on in the waters lovely and it's time to say on with a put or is it well The other exciting thing James is that we have some live shows coming up in London They're gonna be at the soho Theatre deep in the heart of swinging London. Yeah, it's at the Soho Theatre. We're doing 11 shows between the 17th and July of the 21st of August. There are going to be celebrity guests.

[00:19:14] You don't like us. Doesn't matter. One of the four people on stage won't be us. We can guarantee pretty much anything could happen except for swinging. There'll be amazing facts. They'll be docking out. It's going to be really, really fun. Already quite a lot of the dates have sold out and the ones that have not sold out, there are very, very few tickets available. So we're here to tell you if you want to see us live in London in July and

[00:19:39] in August, then really this probably is your last chance to get tickets. That's right. Just go to no such thing asOfish.com slash live and snap yours up now. Okay, now for sure it really is on with the podcast. On with the show. Okay, it is time for fact number two and that is Rosie. A band from Yorkshire once changed its name by Deep Paul to Yorkshire Bank PLC, our fastest, fastest, I love this. Now for avoidance of that, we're not saying that Yorkshire bank PLC are fascists bastards no they don't know what man saying and it's not you're keeping fascists bastards So are we going to call it Mr Bastards or? Well actually I've read that to which friends is known as your share.

[00:20:56] Has he stuck? Because this was a few years ago. 99? Yeah. So has he stuck with it? I wonder? I try to look and I can't find it, but I like telling that your shirt out there,

[00:21:15] enjoying your shirt and hating your shirt bank. I reckon he's probably now called like United Utilities are Fascist Bastards. Yeah. Or, you know, the Royal Mail of Fascist. But, you know, he probably just keeps doing it. Because actually, he's changed his name to those, what that's six words.

[00:21:33] So four of those are middle names. So he will look like he's just called Yorkshire Bastards. Well, we don't know Fascist Bastards as a double barrel. Oh, yeah, it could be, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I always picture this going to a D-Pole because I need to change my name to something. Let's say a lot of actors do it right, where a name's taken, so they pick something quite normal,

[00:21:49] and you're standing in the queue, and the person in front of you is, oh, what are you changing it to? Is that, oh, Yorkshire Bank of Fascist Buster? That's pretty cool. Guy behind you, what are you changing it to? Oh, you know, Rainbow Sunshine, Lollipops. Oh, god damn it.

[00:22:01] And I'd imagine I would just keep coming out with a different name. I buckle under the... Yeah, as you came in just to call yourself Don Schreiber. Yeah, exactly. No, the Don Schreiber. I'm leading as Indiana Jones, Platypus Orange Man, whatever.

[00:22:13] I'd got an idea. I think after that, we should all go and change our names to a cub. That's a great idea. I got my being Rosie Jones a lot more work. His real name was Michael Howard.

[00:22:34] Yeah. My ex conservative leader. Was Howard big in the 90s? He was. Yeah. I don't know. That was when he was a minister because the conservators were in government at the time. So yeah, he was a big deal at the time. It's an extra incentive to change from Michael Howard, if you didn't want to be. But the report from the time is so good,

[00:22:48] because he asked for his balance at the bank, 69 Pents, to be returned to him by check. And a spokesperson for the bank had to say, the relationship with Mr. Howard has irretrievably broken down, and we very much regret that. And he said, sorry, who you talking to? That's not how it was he. I'm not going to say that. I'm bank had to say, the relationship with Mr. Howard has erotatively broken down, and we very much regret that.

[00:23:06] And he said, sorry, who do you talk with? That's not what I'm saying. Conservative leader, no. I love Rosie, the link you sent over was from a Guardian article, which was called, it's a funny old world, 1999, and this was published in November. And just the other examples are there, just to read one or two of them.

[00:23:23] There was this great one in Sydney, a 120-man named Henry attacked each other during a, my name is Henry Convention. Henry Panty of Canberra accused Henry Pappa of Sydney of not being a Henry at all, but in fact, an Angus. It was a lie explained Mr. Papp, I'm a Henry, and always will be, whereupon Henry Papp attacked Henry Panty, whilst two other Henry's, Jones and Dyer, attempted to pull them apart. Several more Henrys, Smith, Calvary Wood and Andrews, became involved and soon the entire convention descended into a joint fist fight. Oh, that's how they hoovered up after that.

[00:23:58] The final line, the brawl was eventually broken up by right police, led by a man named... Henry! Shane. Oh, yeah. It was Australia. I'm, Rosie, you're from Yorkshire, aren't you? Yes.

[00:24:10] Okay. I'm proud of your silly thing. And that's how you get a reputation in obeying tight plastic. in a billion-taught plastic, but Ir rhwng i'n cael ei ffordd oeddwn i'n cael ei ffordd oeddwn i'n cael ei ffordd oeddwn. But up to £200 a month aside, shall we forget them money? Yeah, we know. Wait, are you a Yorkshire ambassador? Are you trying to change? Is that what you're here? You've got a agenda. Full table thing.

[00:25:24] All that says to me, Rosie, if they're not going into the role for draft and they're saving money, is that they're not spending any money on it. Oh, yeah. There's a word fact I found which kind of combines the name changes and the money thing. So is it pronounced connoisperer in Yorkshire? Yeah. Connoisperer. Okay, so there's a place in Yorkshire called Connoisperer, which has a road in it,

[00:25:43] which is called Butthole Road. Okay? Oh, no. Where are you? in Yorkshire called Connoisperer, which has a road in it, which is called Butthole Road, okay? Where are you? Oh, yeah! They didn't love it. It was named after a water butthole that used to be in the road. I mean, perfectly innocent, normal, not funny, you know, but three-way. Butthole Road.

[00:26:00] I don't know that wasn't funny. I know. I know. Well, the thing is, they were getting a lot of prank calls. They were getting tourists. Tourists turning up with their arses out and that kind of stuff. Taxi drivers point blank refused to believe it was a rickshaw.

[00:26:11] They wouldn't take you there. There were tour buses turning. I mean, it's a lot of... Just quite quiet. Tour, I guess. But one family actually sold up and moved in 2003 because they were so annoyed about the jokes. Yeah.

[00:26:26] And the new owner of the house, Peter Satton, said he knows what to expect and he's looking forward to moving. I know. It's very sadly for our purposes. They changed the name of the street in 2009 to Archer's Way. Ah, Swat. But the council refused to replace the street sign for free, which I don't know if that plays into the other Yorker's stereotypes. Yeah, yeah.

[00:26:51] Yeah. Also there's a village that I've never been to, but I say science about it called the land of not. Really? The land of not really the land of not Yeah, that's quite nice. It's in the Bible isn't the land of not it's the place east of Eden where they get sent off I think they just long-tices are reliable, but yeah, is that where they call it god's own country Yorkshire. Yeah, no, it's because they're deluded Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm. I'm sorry. I'm. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm. I'm. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm sorry. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm sorry. I'm. I'm. I'm. I'm Actually, my mom and dad are from the UK. Are they? Oh, you're not.

[00:27:47] He's suffering. He hasn't occurred so quickly. Sorry, Rosie, so you're from Bridlington, right? Yeah. They have 21 fish and chip takeaways within a five minute walk of the centre of Bridlington, right? Oh, now you call that a challenge. The problem is, you have so much fish and chips that also means you have a lot of seagulls.

[00:28:10] Yes. Right. I was reading the Bridlington Echo, and it's a recurring story about the problems with seagulls. The Royal Mail had to warn residents that they wouldn't be getting their postal deliveries because seagulls kept attacking postal workers. Oh there was a bank that was closed because nesting Seagulls had caused a leak in the roof. And the Bridlington Fire Station had to rescue a stranded Seagull

[00:28:35] after it sat on top of a metal lab post for too long in the winter. So it's, you know. Wait, did you get, sorry, just to burrow down is that one bit what was it frozen onto the you know Like when you put your tongue on it on a Apparently if you're a seagull it it works with your feet as well The rescue it well with the tongue you usually pour like lukewarm water. Yeah, yeah, they did something similar I think Great imagine they did something similar. I think they're so great but I think what that says more than anything is shit all that fit. Well there's a big story recently a woman called

[00:29:19] Susan Radford. She was a grandma and she spoke out against sexually explicit suites that were on the sale on the Seafront. Three of an exact one. Well, you know like rock like solid. Stick a rock? Oh, you're in the shape of it. In the shape of it. Oh, we can get one. Of penises.

[00:29:39] Right, it's easy. What do you think? I knew. I knew! And she was so upset that she's... she got in touch with the local Anglican church to help her complaint and she said she's not going to visit Bridlington again until they get rid of the...

[00:30:01] She's not from Wellington. No, she just went on holiday one day, saw them and went, I'm not coming back here again. Wow. Good. Where do you need her? I saw a couple of articles where it said, Bridlington, voted one of the worst towns in the UK and stuff, but everyone who then went to write up on it came out going, it's awesome here.

[00:30:23] What are you talking about? Like, who said that this was bad? I haven't been myself, so I don't know, but the picture is, it looks kind of pretty. I mean, I think Britain 10, is very good if you're under five and you're over eight to five. Right, okay.

[00:30:42] In between, that, not a lot. Yeah, so pretty rough message to hear on your sixth birthday in Britlington. Get out now, Friday, get out. Can I quickly tell you a couple of Yorkshire World Records? Yeah, so very proud Yorkshire World Records. Fastest time to make a liter of ice cream, which was 10 seconds. Why? Andrew Ross.

[00:31:07] But the ingredients did include liquid nitrogen, so I feel like there was some. Yeah. Yeah. Cheat. Yeah. Worlds allowed us to clap. OK.

[00:31:16] I'm waiting. I'm going to go back to the app. We're not talking about the disease. The question. So people, you could hear them screaming for miles. Oh God, the clap! No. Everyone's red. I don't know if this is true. The name, the clap, came.

[00:31:38] This is awful. That they used to put your penis between two pieces of wood and then whack them together and it would like get the discharge out of the... What? You're eating trash. We're talking about a seven year old girl here, so I hope you're all very proud of yourselves.

[00:31:53] I think that might be true, but I'm not sure. I think that's the cure of different thing. I think there's a thing called peoria where the penis starts to bend and it happens increasingly as you get older, and it's incredibly painful, and there are no ways of dealing with it. Also if your penis isn't flat enough, that'll be bad.

[00:32:11] Can we get back to this poor kid? Sorry, what was this? A young girl, 70 years old. Martha Gibson. Martha Gibson. She was clapping. Her family noticed, she's got an incredibly loud clap. You know when some people, they really, have these, the hollow space in their hands.

[00:32:26] And it's apparently the equivalent of a heavy goods vehicle passing by 73 decibels. And they got someone from Guinness to measure it. So a seven-year-old. Yeah. And maybe the someone who hasn't been officially Guinness approved measured. But anyway, she was born in 1998, which means

[00:32:39] she's out there somewhere. Yeah. You know, she's in her 20s now. I don't know if she's still got that. She has a bit sweaty of argigs, I can say somewhere. Yeah. You know, she's in her 20s now. I don't know if she's still got that. She has a bit sweaty of our gigs, I can say that. Yeah. Yeah. Can't say one last thing from these.

[00:32:49] It's a funny old world. Yeah. So it's just, they're just such great stories. Sex line call are complained to trading standards after dialing an 08-9-1 number for an advertisement saying, hear me moan only to be played a tape of a woman nagging her husband for failing to do to do things around the house.

[00:33:05] Oh, I love that. And then a sign scene in a police canteen in Christchurch, New Zealand. Will the person who took a slice of cake from the commissioner's office return it immediately? It is needed as evidence in a poisoning case. Just a good guy. Okay, it's time for fact number three and that is Andy. My fact is that despite them being one of the largest fish on the planet, nobody knows where female whale sharks live.

[00:33:36] So not the ocean. Yes, the ocean. Ah, yep. So. Okay, next question is, yeah. Solve that quickly. Oh, wow. That's a concrete detective Solve that quickly.

[00:33:45] Oh, wow. That's been creed. Detective Dan investigates. You are welcome. They live in the ocean. It's a big place. It's a big place. Just shout out to Rich Horner, who sent this fact in,

[00:33:56] not knowing that, you know, Dan would solve it so quickly. Yeah, yeah. And this is about whale sharks, which are absolutely massive. And I don't know very much about them. They're the largest shark Yeah, they're not a whale. They're a shark. Yeah, and they're only called a whale shark because they're just so huge That's just fish I reckon he said one of the largest fish, but there can't be many bigger There are some fish aren't they which are massive? I don't know that there are different dimensions

[00:34:19] Not like there's mass and then there's length and there's all of this but they are absolutely huge and then there's length and there's all of this, but they are absolutely huge. A cabin that they wear, yes, who more charged free elephant. Wow. And yet we don't know where the females live. It's mad. So scientists, they know where young males are

[00:34:36] because they tend to frequent waters that are more coastal and they're very harmless, by the way, should say. They're omnivores, but they plankton and not if you're a plankton Well, that's a good point. Yeah, and there's one place where scientists know that they're likely to find female whale sharks which is just off Darwin which is the northernmost Galapagos island, but that's the only place that they know they hang out and they I mean they live you know across thousands of miles of ocean They're just missing just made us I read that they actually found

[00:35:08] war and confirmed Tracinum was Act and it was 10.6 meters And she contained 300 What and shake and hang 300 pot. What? 300, holy moly.

[00:35:30] But that is down all share bad. Well, thank goodness. In a sense, that means we know exactly where they all work. Because it would be knee deep. It would be like Brindlington at Fisherchap shops. Oh, God. Wow. Yeah, and eventually give birth to the live young winter satchel. So 300 eggs will have hatched inside that man.

[00:35:50] Those eggs are the biggest eggs on earth. So you have to have a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little It then hatches also inside you, and then you eventually give birth to the live-young winter satchel. So 300 eggs will have hatched inside that moth. Those eggs are the biggest eggs on earth as well. How they? Yeah. I didn't realize that this might be common knowledge, but what makes this is a whale shark? What makes it more shark than whale?

[00:36:20] What's the difference between a whale and a shark? One's a mammal and one's a fish. Yeah, but one other difference, which I didn't know is that sharks are all cartilage and whales are bone. That's what makes it the shark. That's true. Is that crazy? No bones? One interesting thing because of that is that, you know how or I know this because I'm old. As you get older as a human, you kind of get stiffer.

[00:36:42] Yeah. Well, sharks are the opposite. Sharks start off being quite stiff, and then as they get older, they get floppier and floppier. Yeah, that's pretty. Baby, yeah, yeah, thank God. I'm so full of policy.

[00:36:58] Baby, yeah, my shark. I can't believe it. If you've got more than 300 teeth, that is another sign. Oh no, I've been there to watch you. Subtaining her teeth. Why your shirt had teeth on their eyes? Oh yeah. I've got a called dente denticles or something like this.

[00:37:25] Yeah. Oh yeah, don't have eyelids. So we're not doing to protect them. Yeah, what looks like the L.T. Yeah. And the rise stick out a tiny bit from the head, which is also a problem, obviously, in terms of protecting them. So they have another trick, which is that they can retract their eyes. out a tiny bit from their head, which is also a problem, obviously, in terms of protecting them. So they have another trick, which is that they can retract their eyes.

[00:37:48] Oh, really? They just go, boop! When what? I guess when dangerous retains? It's quite a long way. It's about half the diameter of the eyeball. They can just... Wow! I love the ugly, ugly, nicest, for whatever animals do.

[00:38:01] I don't know anything at all. I remember when hippos retracted their testicles by going, Rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr the shark back itself because the teeth might hurt a bit, I guess, if you're biting into it. That's just mad. You're biting something from your torso. It's nuts. They grow really quickly, so they're born quite big, but then they get really big. So there was one in an aquarium that went from weighing 1.7 pounds to 333.4 pounds in three years, just over three years. And I worked out in human terms that would be equivalent of a three-year-old baby growing to the size of the world's largest unicycle.

[00:38:59] You're always going too far with these things. I can cram in one more fact here. You can imagine that one, the world biggest. Well, I can imagine the range of things for the world's biggest. Because right now, I'm imagining the Empire State Building with a unicycle leading up against the entire life of it. It's smaller than that. How big is the world's biggest? It's 31 feet. Oh, that's big.

[00:39:16] I thought it was very big. Yeah, yeah, yeah. 31 feet. As in 31 feet, but in the same proportions as a normal human. So not that so that so that So the child wouldn't look like a unicycle is what you look like. Okay, you look like a normal proportioned human, but 31 feet tall. Yeah. I think the unicycle thing is really throat. I've got more questions about the unicycle man. Is it rideable this unicycle? Yeah, it has to be rideable otherwise it doesn't get the world record. Yeah. That must be a the unicycle. Is it rideable this unicycle? Yeah, it has to be rideable, otherwise it doesn't get the world record.

[00:39:45] Yeah. Oh, that must be a terrifying unicycle ride. Yeah. How long must your legs be, do you ride that? Yeah! I think what they do is they keep the pedals quite close to where your bum is. Like the same distance as your leg. Yeah, that's cut to your bum.

[00:39:57] I wouldn't have done it that way, but I think they've done it better actually. Yeah, I would done a better actually. They've done a better... That was a big wheel. No, it's mostly like a long story. It's mostly the pole, yeah. It's really, it's a normal unicycle, but they've just extended the distance between the wheel and the pedals. I've seen people do it on these record-sized, it's petrified.

[00:40:22] Well, you would be able to know exactly how big one of these babies that don't exist would be because you've seen it yourself. Yes, exactly. So I was on board. It was a fantastic analogy. You need to watch more YouTube clips you took. These are these pups we were talking about a bit earlier. Yeah. So those 300 pups, this is a really cool thing.

[00:40:42] It's very true. They're often inside the mother. They're at inside the mother. They're at different stages of development, but they're all from the same father, whale shark. The mother can basically stall sperm frages and gradually fertilize a little better at a time. Oh yeah.

[00:40:58] Yeah, so I think other sharks do it, and maybe even kangaroos, where they sort of like pocket away the sperm. That's not what I was in that pocket, is it? That's right. other sharks do it and maybe even kangaroos, where they sort of like pocket away the sperm. That's not what I was saying, that pocket is it? That's it. That's full of sperm. Wow, really?

[00:41:12] That's the right, yeah. So it's just to get this right, it's one male whale shark, has sex. The female keeps all the sperm and then slowly has more and more children with that original. Exactly. I think it's one mating session and then it's not you know human to come to show more in your exact right 20 years. Yeah. Come and help with that baby. Yeah, when

[00:41:44] you finally get the call that you've got an illegitimate child, it's like, you've got 20 illegitimate kids. Oh, yeah. And the size of the world's largest U-dice cycle. Yeah. And that drunk a night in Bidlington? Well, you're a... 118, 1112,

[00:41:59] 128. Yeah? They have this really interesting habit, whale sharks, which is they dive down about 2,000 meters. Yeah. Huge, the largest vertical range, almost of any sea creature. Oh, that's like 200 times the size of the whale.

[00:42:16] Just see the size. Yeah, well, that really makes you think, doesn't it? Imagine that. How long would your legs have to reach out to the lab? OK, so the things we don't know why. And also, when they sink, they're so scientists often tag the few that they can find to assert. Yeah.

[00:42:35] So that's a really useful thing for them. But it shakes, basically the tags don't work, 2000 meters down. So they kind of, they can see in the dark as a result, they've got special genetic mutation, which allows them to see in the dark, because they are so deep down. But mutation which allows them to see in the dark because they are so deep down. But we don't know why they do it because down there there's less oxygen, there's less food, it's very cold, so they have to warm themselves up a bit afterwards. There is one theory, well there are a couple of theories I think, but this is from a

[00:42:59] well-shark scientist called Simon Pierce, which is that it might be so they can navigate better because they can navigate better because they can get a better reading of the Earth's magnetic field closer to the crust. Oh, just effectively, that they're going to get a better signal. Yeah, amazing. Which I love in the theory.

[00:43:17] That's like holding your phone up in the Earth to get a better signal. Yeah, exactly like that. Wow, that's super incredible. We don't know if they make noises as in vocalizations. Oh, really? And we kind of know that they don't. But there's a few scientists that think that they do.

[00:43:35] And it's very confusing because they don't, as far as we can tell, have anything that would make a sound. No vocal chords whatsoever. The way that their teeth are set up is they can't do a grinding sound to create noise that comes out as grinding. So they don't have a swim bladder, which a lot of fish will use to control buoyancy, but also noise will come out of that that you'll hear. So you don't have anywhere really that sound can come from yet. There is a scientist called Heather Barrett, who has been recording them and a couple of times has got sound out of them. So it's a sort of mysterious thing. She's been following this one male

[00:44:09] called Shredder. She said she thought it sounded like two strokes over the ridged back of those wooden frog noise makers, salted tourists in every Mexican market. Another relatable Zubble. Oh my god. But yeah, so big mystery to be solved. Wow. To do the whale sharks, make noises. Very cool. Yeah. I was looking at some odd females in the animal kingdom.

[00:44:32] Oh yeah. Because I found that there's a thing called a pouch rat. And some female pouch rats can create a chemical that makes all the other females vagina's seal up. Wow. Isn't that amazing? makes all the other females for gin as seal up. Huh. Huh. Huh. Wow.

[00:44:47] Isn't that amazing? Wow. So is it a status? Yeah. Do you have to be the sort of lead? You have to spot on. So like the most dominant female in a pack of pouched rats, she'll be the one who's mating.

[00:45:01] And to stop any of the other females mating, she sends out this chemical and all the vaginas go, Root! Yeah! And close it. You put it in terms I can understand now. There's not amazing. I find that astonishing.

[00:45:15] What a power! Yeah. Yeah. That's the craziest thing. That's one of all the years. That's one of the weirdest things I think I've ever done in the show. You should write funny old world for the garden. Yeah.

[00:45:35] Okay, it's time for our final fact of the show. And that is James. Okay, my fact this week is that the place where Judas plotted to betray Jesus is about to become a ziplining site. So cool. Will they mark on the ground the point where Judas did the exact plotting so that as you zipline over it, you can contemplate that. That would be good. Or maybe you have to pay 30 pieces of silver. I don't know. This is in Jerusalem. And it's an area sometimes known as the Hill of Evil Council. And according to tradition, this is where Judas plus it's a betray Jesus. And it's part of a more general sort of attempt in Jerusalem to to bring more tourists in and make it more tourist-friendly. Although some people say it as part of a bigger political strategy to make eastern

[00:46:29] western Jerusalem less solid things and maybe make Jerusalem a more Israeli area. I mean, what does it blinds do? They cross borders. Normally a good thing, but sometimes it can be controversial. It can be controversial. And according to some people, in this case it is. Can I check storage aims? What you said the according to some people in this case it is. Can I check, sorry James, I, what you said the place where Jude has plotted to portray Jude is, I thought, well maybe this is the place where Jude

[00:46:51] does actually portray Jude. The garden of Gassennemey. Yeah, that's what he did the actual betrayal. So this is just like the pre-betrayal. This is what I mean. He thought about it. He was like, you know, you can't just turn up at the garden of Gassennemey

[00:47:02] with no plan. No, God, you need to think about it first. If you enemy with no plan. No, you need to think that's how it first. If you failed to prepare to betray Jesus, you prepared to fail. Yeah, and this was in the Hill of Evil Council, so it was where, I think it was where the Romans sort of came up to him and said, hey, want to do a bit of betraying? Oh, wow. And yeah, that was where that's supposedly happened. At the end of that meeting, Judas went,

[00:47:23] got a wonder, one day in the future, how they're going to commemorate this spot. A statue of me, what's it going to be? And then, yeah, you can get on your zipline and it'll take you down to a place called the Peace Forest. Oh, it smells like it. It doesn't have any biblical story attached to it.

[00:47:41] But then the developers are saying, well, it's nothing to do with this political thing. It's actually because they're quite neglected areas. A lot of drug dealers around there. So how do you fight drug dealing with zip lines? Yeah, yeah. Make it easier to just pick. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Do it. Put a zip lock on a zip line. It's've been on a zipline. I have you. I did the channel for 12 or so, that in hindsight I think the producers were trying to cool. it's saying, be like, okay, turn now, you get when she got down there. Well, the producers are related to anyone you'd snagged off at the Paralympics, the previous, yeah, was that okay? They all had their knees in there, they were.

[00:48:57] So we did one that, because I didn't wear it, but she's home to the longest and the fastest time and I did it and it was incredible. That one looks amazing. I've seen clips of that. It's really very cool. Jenny, you're clear? What's that? Yeah. How did you know? It was on television. Oh! I thought I just did it for fun. But Jenny was hilarious because obviously, that they camera-run on, I was screaming when yelling and having the time of my life. I like, is she asleep? That is she was so zen.

[00:50:07] No, really? She says she enjoyed it. I've been on a zipline only once, and it was a tiny one. It was one of those adventure places that you go to, and I don't know what went wrong. I don't know how I'd done my harness up, incorrectly.

[00:50:24] It sort of traps my testicles in a really painful way. So I go down the zip line, screaming, and I don't make it right to the end, so I can't get my legs onto the thing. And I am screaming, like it's really hurting, but unfortunately, the person I did it with was my friend who's a comedian, Tom Davis, who's a very sinister sense of humor,

[00:50:44] and got everyone to step back and let me just hang there while I was screaming. There's a lot of photos that Tom has online of me screaming with my testicles traps in a, yeah, that's my only experience. Yeah. And you were sort of, you were hanging there, ironically, like a testicle, like a huge testicle, but your own testicles weren't free. Exactly. And that was the problem, basically,

[00:51:10] things, doesn't it? That's making you think. James, have you been on a zip-line? I have, I was just thinking, I've always liked Tom Davis. Yeah. I like him even more. Yeah. Yeah, now I have a few occasions.

[00:51:22] What are the only ones? Was it on a zip-line? Around this table. Right, come on. Well, I have a few occasions. What are the only ones? It's on a zip line. Around this table. Right, come on. We'll all go away. Yeah. We'll all go change our name by date. Yeah.

[00:51:34] And we'll go to a plan. I've been somewhere, I've been somewhere that has recently got permission for a zip line. Have you? But when I went there, they hadn't got the planning permission. Yeah. Honest to slate mine and the lake district. Just wanted to give a shout out to them.

[00:51:50] Okay, cool. They spent 10 years trying to get permission for a zip line. 10 years. Yeah. Really? The council said, no, this is beautiful here. This old slate mine. Yeah.

[00:52:00] And I've got to tell you, it's not the place that would suffer irretrieval. Like, yeah, he's slated it. I don't want to. Well, I don't. I enjoyed it. I bought some souvenir slate where it would suffer irretrieval. He's slated it. Oh, I don't want to. I enjoyed it. I bought some souvenir slate there. I had a really good time.

[00:52:08] It's a fun place to get. I was there by myself, and I had a really nice time to slate my walk. It was brilliant. I love it. But you do think the addition of one wire in the occasional person screaming as they pass. Yeah.

[00:52:19] Do you think? But you could think of the amount of slates you could see in a short amount of time if you had that zip line Stop it stop it. You're trying you're trying to get me excited if it's working But it will be used to transport slate in quiet periods. It's not right. Yeah, yeah I believe that's the that's the arrangement they've come to So it is gonna happen. Yeah, yeah, you are you on a waiting list of course

[00:52:43] On a slated list. Oh, god. Yeah. Anyway, just wanted to write my own personal anecdote. Very, very such good story. Well, I wanted to. Topped all of us. Mm. Um, you know, one of the dangers of going on a zip line,

[00:52:56] I'm very glad you didn't get this. Tash, there you go. Yes, that's one of them. The other one is slamming into slots. So I've watched a video of a young boy in Costa Rica going down a zip line and behind him is either an instructor or a parent, I don't quite know who, and you see the video is just going super fast, super strong through this canopy, and then suddenly you just see this ball of fur and he slams into it and fortunately the sloth doesn't lose grip but they both stop and this sloth is

[00:53:31] just so confused and turns around. Was it all right? Yeah well it seemed to be okay it didn't drop. Fortunately it was the boy. It was fine. I saw that video as well and the person who's in charge who's called Flavio, Layton, Ramos, he said, the sloth or child weren't hurt, so they just had to wait for the sloth to get out of the way for around 15 minutes. Yeah. And you watch the sloth climbing away in this moment where it's hands not on the wire and it's taking so long, you think. Who is on the wire?

[00:54:00] It's on the wire, it's on the middle of the zip. Yeah, so the zip line is going past a load of trees. And so it's obviously been on one of the tree hanging branches as sort of thought this was a branch. Yeah, it's gone. But it's literally, yeah, there's no tree near it for I guess 15 minutes, because there's no way for it.

[00:54:17] It's got to be a jar of it. It's like cliffhanger, it was amazing. But the intro of cliffhanger. Isn't that where the zip line comes from, Costa Rica? The modern zip line was invented there there by a boat called Donald Perry. That's right. He was trying to study the canopy and there was no good way of going from tree to tree. So he turned up in 1979 with a crossbow, which is so cool.

[00:54:38] That is cool. He just started firing it around with a wire attached and bring it up. What a guy. They called him Humberley Mono, which means monkey man, Costa Rica, because he was using all these wires to get around. So cool. Really cool. And he didn't patent it, I don't think.

[00:54:55] So someone else came along. But someone else came along and did do that. It was a sort of a businessman who wanted to make money off it and he was called Darren Hreniuk and he's a Canadian guy and when other people then started using zip lines he used to go around and cut the zip lines down but he would do it claiming it in a legal way so in some cases he would bring you know we're representative from a sort of official body to sort of say yes this is a legal thing and so you'd go cutting these things down, even though we didn't have a claim to the invention of it,

[00:55:28] because it was very clearly from this periguy. Yeah. Wow. Can I tell you about a bloke called Jack Reynolds? Yes, please. Yeah. Jack is the oldest man ever to use a zipline. OK.

[00:55:41] That we know of. It was 2018. It was 106 years old. Very cool. I know. I've got a shout out to Jack Reynolds. He's very slightly passed away, died in 2020, aged 108. Yeah, I never made it.

[00:55:52] I never made it. I never made it. James, you joke. Oh, no. No, well, no. And yeah, but the year before the zip line, when he turned 105, he won oldest person to ride a non-inversion roller coaster which I love that was Twister Saurus at Flamingo Land in molten. On his 104th birthday he got

[00:56:12] oldest person to receive their first tattoo. I remember this guy. 1912 he was born that one it said is a Jack. He went skydiving that was another thing he did. I think that's a good excuse. Like if people say, why have you never had a tattoo? He'd say, well, I'm holding out to become the world's oldest man to have a tattoo. Yeah. And at the age of 108, sorry, the age of 107, so the year before he died, he became the oldest person to,

[00:56:39] I think it was having cameo in a soap opera. He appeared in Holyoke. Oh no! No! It was't work. Just a year and we had one line, he just said, don't worry, I'm very old and I've had a great life and you'll be all right and all that.

[00:56:51] It was his first acting role in 100 years. So he'd had a previous one when he was seven. No. What was it on? I don't know. He was on a train approaching the garden hall, wasn't it? That's amazing. Holly Oaks. I know Holly Oaks as well, which is such a young show.

[00:57:09] Yeah, yeah, yeah. That IMDB though, just with like 100 year difference. Yeah. Two credits. When was he on Holly Oaks? That was the year before he died, so it would have been 2019. Okay, cool. Yeah, yeah, what? Cowlay.

[00:57:27] I have a friend who was, who actually died over Christmas in Hollywood. Oh, in Hollywood. In Hollywood. Yeah. Yeah. And she got crushed by a, by a bookcase. 108-year-old man. He's parachute, didn't open. LAUGHTER

[00:57:54] Okay, that's it. That is all of our facts. Thank you so much for listening. If you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we've said over the course of this podcast, we can be found on our Twitter accounts. I'm on at Shribaland. James. James Harkin. Andy. Andrew Hunter M.

[00:58:08] And Rosie. And Rosie. And is there anything that you want to mention that's coming up? Yeah, I'm that one tall. All I'm a date. day, sat on, bro, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day, day account, which is at no such thing, or you can email us at podcast at qi.com. That's it for now. We're going to be back again next week with another episode, and we'll see you then.

[00:58:53] Goodbye. you
