# No Such Thing As A Fish - 97: No Such Thing As Andrew Diplodocus Carnegie

- Episode date: January 22, 2016
- Source: https://podscripts.co/podcasts/no-such-thing-as-a-fish/97-no-such-thing-as-andrew-diplodocus-carnegie
- Slug: 97-no-such-thing-as-andrew-diplodocus-carnegie

## Transcript

[00:00:00] Hello, and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you from the QI offices in Covent Garden. My name is Dan Schreiber, I'm sitting here with Andy Murray, James Harkin, and our friend Helen Arnie of Festival of the Spoken Nerd, and once again we've gathered around the microphones with our four favorite facts from the last seven days, and in no particular order, here we go. Starting with you, Helen. My fact is, tomorrow will be the longest day of your life. What do you know about my life that means the tour is going to be so terrible? It's because I won't be with you, Andy, that's why it's going to be so long. The days on earth

[00:00:49] are getting longer all the time, on average, right? This is an on average thing, so potentially tomorrow could be your longest ever day, but then the day after that could be even longer. Oh wow. We're talking like tiny, tiny amounts, but the earth is gradually being slowed down. So it's not like 20 minutes? Yeah, you don't suddenly wake up tomorrow and you're like, wow, got an extra spare 20 minutes. It's like you've got a microsecond, you've got a microsecond spare. Oh, okay. What will I do with it? Take the dog for a walk. You're thinking about what you will do with it. In the next 800 years, if we didn't adjust our clocks to account for this, we would be an hour out. So midday wouldn't be when the sun is at its highest point,

[00:01:33] it would be 1 p.m. So in 800 years time, we'll be an hour out unless we adjust our clocks and we add these things called leap seconds, all kinds of stuff. Do you know that the word noon used to mean 3 p.m.? So you would go 12 p.m. 1, 2, noon, 4. Yeah, because noon was the ninth hour of the day and you can work back however many hours that was. It was 6 a.m. wasn't it? So the first hour of the day. Was it Roman times? Actually in medieval times and I think it was for like people who were praying, they would have to pray on the ninth hour and so they would do their noon time prayers and it would be at 3 p.m. So in the year 5,000 approximately midday will be. We'll be back there again. This is perfect. What were you saying about leap seconds? Well, this is the weird bit

[00:02:23] about all of this slowing down because the earth is slowing down. There's nothing you can do about it. It's things like tidal forces are kind of slowing down the earth by moving in and out, changing the angular momentum if you want to get physically about it. But things like earthquake they can speed up the movement of the earth. So this is a really on average thing. So over the last few decades we've noticed that the earth has slowed down but sometimes it's speeding up and sometimes it's slowing down. So on average it's slowing down but they can't predict it exactly. So you can never say right next year we need to add a leap second. We'll get back to normal because some years you're going a bit slower, some years going a bit faster. So these organizations

[00:03:05] decide. They're kind of like the real time lords. They decide whether we're going to add a leap second. There's a guy at the National Physical Laboratory which is down in South London and he's kind of in charge a little bit of this kind of measurement of the time. He's known as the time lord like you were saying. They call him the time lord. His real name is Peter Wibberley. But that's really interesting because Dr. Who calls his sonic screwdriver the Wibbly Wobbly. It's the Wibbly Wobbly timey-wimey. Anyway Peter Wibbly, we're going to call him the time lord. He said there are consequences with tinkering with time. Other consequences is Daleks. Robo men. It is a trade-off though because computer time is clocking along in its own happy way being

[00:03:57] exactly 60 seconds, exactly 60 minutes, exactly 24 hours. But the earth is doing something a little bit different. The earth is doing 24 hours. Doing its thing. One second every couple of years. And the thing is if we do change it then we need to tell the computers as well. Yeah right. That's where it goes horribly wrong because they can only tell you six months in advance they're going to add a leap second. All of the stock exchanges are now computerized and one second adding one second to one computer and not adding it to another. It means that all of the financial transactions happening in microseconds can be exploited. Suddenly the stock exchanges can go. Wow. I think Andy about the number of the average time that people hold on to a share is like 0.01 seconds

[00:04:43] or something. Something crazy. Because they all happen so quickly and so microtransactions happening all the time. Like you or I might own 10 shares and Tesco's or whatever. I certainly have. I was very worried when the quarterly figures came out. But companies will have you know 100 or 1000 shares in Tesco's microsecond. I think there are 1000 shares in Tesco and James. I'm pretty sure I own more than a tenth of Tesco. There is actually a big international argument about whether we keep the leap second though. Because the US and France want to abolish leap seconds because they're incredibly annoying. But Britain Russia and China say that the technical challenges should be manageable. Right.

[00:05:29] We should be able to handle this. But this last leap second quite a few DPS receivers knocked out apparently in the 2012 one read it was down for 40 minutes which was in 2015 Twitter Pinterest and Instagram and Amazon were down for about an hour or something. Did I not read that they had to ground all quantices flights for about an hour or something. Yeah it was 2012 their booking system went AWOL because the systems couldn't cope with this added second in the middle of the night. There's a thing I don't know too much about this but you guys might Anna was telling me this that the because someone I used to know. So basically obviously every planet has a different amount of day to earth within all 24 hours. So all the NASA scientists who working on the Rovers on Mars

[00:06:22] have to adjust their clocks to be doing a work schedule on Mars time. So they work on a Mars day. That's cool. Is it 26 hours or something. It's not that different. Yeah it's not that similar. Yeah but it starts to really mess you up. I found a really cool measurement. So I was looking into different measurements of time and found a few surprising ones that I didn't know were real things like for example I would always hear an American say I'll be there in a Jiffy. I didn't know Jiffy was an actual unit of time. What. Yeah Jiffy is an actual unit of time. It's a 0.1 seconds. Really. Yeah another unit. Do you guys know how long a moment is. So I got this from a guy called Hagrid Hawks at Hagrid Hawks on Twitter. In Medieval Europe 90 seconds is what a moment was

[00:07:10] defined as. Okay. Either in a moment. Cool I'll see you in 90 seconds. That's. Is that right. That's according to this guy. He runs a really amazing blog about words that are no longer used. It's a really nice kind of Twitter account. I read once that a moment now is like three seconds or something. Is that how long you have to be hugging someone for it to be uncomfortable. Yeah it is. It was a similar study. It was some kind of study about hugging and it was like how long the average hug is until it gets a bit awkward. And they said it was a moment which is three seconds. And then they said a lot of other things in your body also last for three seconds. I can't remember what it was. It was. Yeah. So I don't think it's universal because I think if James and I

[00:07:51] hugged it'll be awkward after about 0.2 seconds. In a Jiffy. Okay time for fact number two and that is James. Okay my fact this week is that in 1457 men with mustaches were banned from Dublin. This is such a cool fact. Why? They didn't like Irish people. Yes it was Irish people. Weirdly with it being Dublin. But because Dublin was owned by the English at the time just the area around Dublin. The rest of Ireland was run by the Irish. But the area around Dublin was run by the English. It was called the pale which is where we get the phrase beyond the pale for something that's crazy. Something that was outside of this pale area. And what they didn't want was Irish people in the town. But if an

[00:08:44] Irishman did kind of get in there how would you know it was him. Well they all had these mustaches. So if there was an English person in the pale who had a mustache you didn't want him there because everyone would think he was Irish. Right. That was a problem. The ordnance said men with baddies above the mouth were not allowed and baddies meant beards. So any beard above the mouth. So you have a beard above the mouth Dan. No I don't. But he's also got a beard below the bill. He's got a beard. I've got a bit of growth I wouldn't say it's a fully formed. That counts as a body to me. Really. I'm afraid so. Well they had a they even had a rule about this. It was so that is the same rule was so that the said let be at least shave them within two weeks. So if you

[00:09:25] haven't shaved for two weeks that's what counts because they amazingly at the time they did not have a word for mustache. So they had to say if you have any beard above the mouth or hair on your upper lip they had no way of more concise way of saying mustache. One thing I love about this is this is I'm quite obsessed with facial hair and beards in the sense that I'm really fascinated by it because I can't have it myself and I'm also fascinated by it and I don't really want it near me. It's like nuclear power station. I know that they're really great and lots of people like them but I just don't want one pressed up against my face. Like a nuclear power station. Yeah exactly. But I'm absolutely obsessed with beards and I've got some adverts I dug up about quack

[00:10:04] beard growing solutions that were sold by Victorian quacks in order to for people to grow a beard because beards were supposed to be for health so you they would filter out the bad air and there was apparently there was when it was when people still thought that diseases were carried by bad smells instead of by contact so you would stop the bad smells getting into your mouth blah blah blah and so people would get a beard on prescription and if they weren't able to grow a beard they would get like a beard generating liquid that they could smother over themselves. That's so funny. That's amazing. Beards were like for health. That's very cool. But then they went really out of fashion at the end of Victorian times. Yeah yeah. And there was a study in 1909

[00:10:50] about how a moustache is harbour germs and this was the New York Times. This was a French study they were quoting. It said a Parisien as in a female Parisian allowed herself to be kissed by a clean shaver man and then by a bearded man and the clean shaver man had left a small quantity of harmless particles. His rival's kiss had colonised the lady's lips with the best alive tuberculosis, diphtheria, pneumonia and numerous other unpleasant microbes. Where did they get this bearded mark? They just dredged him up from the sane. This is brilliant because in the Journal of Hospital Infection they went and swabbed some men with beards and some men without beards and the men without beards had MRSA on their faces

[00:11:34] and the people with beards did not have MRSA. Yeah but they had tuberculosis. Arguably it's because all the other bacteria they had tons of bacteria but it was producing toxins that were then killing off the nastier bugs. It was good bacteria. Yeah so it's like penicillin. Penicillin kills off other bacteria because it produces toxins. I found a survey result from 2010 of what people in Britain recognise as the most famous moustaches in the world. I think there's one. Interestingly Hitler is not on the list. You're kidding. Hitler's not on the list. Fix. Yeah. Total fix. Total fix. So in at number one we're 24%. Chaplin. No Chaplin is in at five. Give us a give us a clue. Clue artist. Dali. Dali.

[00:12:22] Dali. The Picasso moustache. Famed. You panicked. I did. I could see Andy was going for it. I was like I need to get in here fast. And just quickly at number two in at 18%. Picasso. No. Clue. We need a clue. Clue sportsman. Big daddy and haystacks with the white moustache. Whatever. The one with the wrestler with the white moustache. Yes you got it. Hulk Hogan. Hitler's moustache is way more famous than Hulk Hogan's moustache. Definitely. Someone else missed out on the list of most famous moustaches which is the South Korean striker Kang Soo Il who very recently was suspended for 15 matches because he was found to have steroids in his system which he blamed on a moustache growing cream that he had been applying

[00:13:12] to his face. Did you say Korean football player? Yeah. Yeah. He was. Because I've got the same thing as a Japanese football player. Well a few years later a Japanese rugby player missed the World Cup. Yeah. Exactly for the same reason. He said he was trying to grow a moustache and he was using this kind of thing that had yeah. It seems that I've never heard of modern day moustache cream yet in Korea and Japan apparently this is a thing. Clearly if they're using it as an excuse then it has at least some traction there. Yeah. There are a group of people in Japan called the anus. Grow up kid. What's wrong with you? Grow up. And they're heavily moustached often. So they're hairy anus. Honestly. So the anus they have these really long moustaches

[00:14:06] and they are often said to carry a moustache stick around to lift the moustache when they're eating so they don't get Guinness or whatever inside their moustaches. That's very cool. Now it was first described by a guy called Edward S. Moss when he went around Japan in the 19th century. But it turns out that it isn't a moustache stick. It's a prayer stick but they do use it to lift their moustaches. So it kind of is a moustache stick as well. Okay. What's a prayer stick? It's a stick you use for praying. Is it like an antenna to God? I don't know. I imagined it would be like you know like prayer bowls in Buddhist countries where you kind of you would take the bowl and you would make it make a ringing noise and it would help you meditate or something. I imagined it was

[00:14:47] like that but I really don't know. They did use to have I think it was back in the Victorian times a set of mugs and and so on where they had moustache catchers. So you'd place your moustache into it as part of the porcelain and there would be a I think the anus had those as well. I think so. Moustache cups. So maybe that's where. Those are big. Yeah we had some of those on QI TV show. Oh really? And some of the spoons as well which have a little hole and so it's like a normal spoon except it's got a cap over it with a hole cut out of it so you can pour soup onto one half of the spoon and then strain it through the hole so you get none of the other stuff. Wow. That sounds incredibly practical just from a kind of sippy cup kind of perspective. Yeah. That to have that would

[00:15:28] mean. I know. I'd like one myself. Yeah I'd love one. I've got another stick beard fact. Oh yeah. Facial hair stick fact which is we mentioned the popularity of beards in Victorian times. In the early Victorian times they're incredibly unpopular and then they kind of reached peak beard in kind of 1890s but to give you an example in the 1840s only one member of parliament had a beard and it was George Frederick Munt and this was really extraordinary not just because it looked like a toilet brush attached to the palm of his face but at the time beards were the mark of a tramp revolutionary or charlatan so he used to carry a stick with him and I've got this he was although he was a large man he would carry a stiff cane with him at all times to answer any

[00:16:17] insults he encountered on the streets from people who accused him of being either a crank or an artist even. I thought I'd look at some other things that happened in 1457. Oh cool. Nice. Just a few things. Paul II died in a melon-induced apoplexy. We've all been there. Incredible. So this is Anna who I should introduce you guys to one day. She didn't she do a big thing where she found melon overdose was a massive thing back around this time. She loves it. Yeah she found like 10 people kings and popes and yeah all died from melon overdose. What about how is it like it goes. I think it was surely something else. Obviously it was something else. Yeah some of the things Vlad the Impaler made his first raid into Transylvania in that year. Golf was banned

[00:17:12] by James II of Scotland and in 1457 a sow a pig was convicted of murder and sentenced to be hanged by the hind feet from a gallows. Her six piglets were found to be accomplices but as no evidence was offered against them on an account of their tender age they were acquitted. Wait but being hanged by your hind feet wouldn't that be just like a bungee jump. Okay it's time for fact number three and that is my fact. My fact this week is that Diplodocus's could break the sound barrier. The dinosaur. It was so fast. Yeah. Was this like a the days we're sure to sound traveled a lot slower. I know so so the actual the actual answer is that they had a little whipping system at the

[00:18:07] end of their tail and they would whip it so fast that it would break the sound barrier little sonic boom created and we know this apparently according to scientists because they've been doing these computer simulations where they've been recreating the dinosaurs and one of the consequences of putting this thing together the simulation is that when the dinosaur is tailed this movement it moved at such a speed that it breaks the sound barrier so obviously it's hypothetical we don't have Diplodocus's to check it out on but supposedly they broke the sound barrier. I just I find something crazy that something that lot because you I think I I think unless I've made it up there are a few sort of smaller animals that can break the sound barrier but

[00:18:46] outside of that I've never heard of something natural a living thing breaking the sound barrier. Isn't there there's the shrimp does that yeah munti shrimp yeah that's what I'm thinking but it itself doesn't move faster than the sound barrier it clicks with its claws and it creates a bubble which breaks the sound barrier is that correct yeah that sounds about right okay so then that shouldn't count so I don't yeah yeah in terms of the animal moving itself yeah yeah um it's fantastic and it's a Diplodocus I mean that's well I think is a Diplodocus isn't it well ah I say Diplodocus but I say Diplodocus a lot of people say Diplodocus and that's the American pronunciation two scientists around here say yeah but Dan's seen Jurassic Park a lot yeah I would

[00:19:26] trust exactly his judgment well because the word Diplodocus was invented by an American and he pronounced it Diplodocus I think we were supposed to pronounce it Diplodocus but actually I do concede that Diplodocus is a nicer word well there's a BBC news correspondent called Susan Ray and she went round serving what people thought it was oh yeah amongst academics to get a the best understanding of it and what she actually came out with I think there was a different answer but I got more interested in the sideline thing she found out which is that there's actually four pronunciations of it so it's not just the two that we know okay um there's Dip Diplodocus that's how I say it yeah that's speed as well

[00:20:12] is there a Diplodocus uh oh yeah yeah yeah Diplodocus yeah so that one as well that's the fourth yeah I meant Diplodocus yeah but that would imply there's a there's a single animal called a Plodocus which is twice as big yeah so there's four pronunciations apparently what was the fourth one I think the one I just said Diplodocus so this was by a BBC journalist yeah due to the unique way that BBC is funded we now know we now know there are four but Dan hasn't told us which is the right one well as I said I got so interested in the four pronunciations I didn't look into the into the one that actually won and it was named after Andrew Carnegie one of the first dinosaur specimens was named after Andrew Diplodocus Carnegie um yeah look the one of the most wealthy men

[00:21:04] ever yeah can you explain how that was named after him though uh well it was called Diplodocus Carnegie the first specimen yeah the scientific name it was given yeah yeah and uh he invested a lot of money I think he gave Dippy the Diplodocus to the Natural History Museum the plaster cast it was him who presented it yeah yeah and he he was very instrumental in spreading the amazing news about this dinosaur around the world he was fascinated by them yeah that's it just speaking of Dippy so Dippy obviously originally had a different tail I think it was on the ground and then they realized that Diplodocus has probably had them raised up so they had to redo it so they had to do remoulding of it so the person who did the molding of it was the same guy

[00:21:51] who did Jabba the Hutt for Return of the Jedi really yeah his name is John Coppinger that's a great that's really cool yeah I know this because uh someone we work with Steve uh helped uh to work on it so this guy not only did Dippy but he did Jabba the Huts and he did a lot of the aliens in uh Fifth Element and and Harry Potter and so on well I love the aliens in Harry Potter that was so good it was a curveball but it was it was the right moment I've got a dinosaur naming story um which is that it was a couple of years ago a new species completely new species of pterosaur has been named after a nine-year-old girl who found the fossilized bones on a beach in the Isle of Wight um and the species is called uh Vector Draco

[00:22:41] which means pterosaur means dragon from the Isle of Wight um and the second word is Daisy Morrisay because her name is Daisy Morris and so she's a nine-year-old girl who has a dinosaur named after because she found the bones she collected them up amazing she handed them in that's very cool best bit about this when she actually found them she was only four years old wow and she started fossil hunting at the age of three I've been looking for fossils in the Isle of Wight as well and I've never found any pterosaurs yeah because bloody Daisy Morris has got that first she's had years head start she's been going for like 10 years yeah but I'm a lot older than her my eyesight might not be as good as it used to be I think she's closer to the ground you can't move as fast

[00:23:20] on the uncertain terrain James yeah I was reading about the sound barrier and breaking the sound barrier yeah the first man to break the sound barrier is still alive which I did not know Chuck Yeager yeah great name that's an amazing name and he was 24 when he became the first man to break the sound barrier it's really that's what 89 now he's 92 92 yeah um and he because he used to be a fighter pilot he thought it flew in the second world war and he had amazing adventures as you would expect because he was a fighter pilot yeah and I was just reading this is all very public this is on the Wikipedia about him he on the 12th of October 1944 he downed five enemy aircraft in a single mission which is good I believe like you saying you would expect it with

[00:24:02] him being a fighter pilot you would be the worst audience for his stories with you he's like I was in the war and I shot down all these enemies he's like well I would expect you're a fighter pilot hang on hang on I want to tell you what happened on the 12th of October 1944 so this is the exact sentence two of these kills out of five in a day two of these kills were scored without firing a single shot when he flew into firing position against a Messerschmitt 109 the pilots of the aircraft panicked breaking the starboard and colliding with his wingman whoa how cool is that you just have to turn and fade yeah they both parachuted out so they survived he's um so 92 I uh I follow him on Facebook he's very active Facebook user yeah yeah truck Yeager loves Facebook

[00:24:44] that's amazing breaking the social media barrier wasn't there supposedly a story about was it Kittinger or someone who maybe broke the sound barrier before him uh doing a freefall from extremely extremely high and the idea being that he went so fast and with the air being so thin up there the sound barrier is a bit a bit less that maybe he did break the sound barrier wow there are loads of earlier claims or people and they sort of didn't have very accurate instruments and things like that um also the last time that Chuck Yeager broke the sound barrier was on the 50th anniversary of the first time he flew a plane at the age of 74 past mac 1 there's a picture of him sitting in it uh you know on his Facebook page you can see that I'm gonna go and poke him after

[00:25:31] this podcast um we were talking on last week's podcast about the concord and so that obviously breaks the sound barrier and you pointed at Andy that they're not allowed to do it over cities and I had no idea because the the boom is so great that it would actually just be incredibly noisy but actually it goes beyond noise there was a accidental sonic boom a sound barrier breaking that happened um and how do you pronounce this place I know it's aberriss with aberriss with there are actually four ways of pronouncing it there's a brrrr risk with so um a jet was flying over and it broke the sound barrier and it was so loud that everyone thought that a bomb had gone off windows in shops shattered like just blew out completely people

[00:26:18] were terrified and they genuinely thought something had exploded that's incredible that's amazing yeah night shift worker greg babaliki said I was just falling asleep and the sonic boom happened keep it down please isn't that what happened with the meteorite in chelabinsk as well it broke the sound barrier and it caused a massive kind of smashing of windows and stuff wow so when the dinosaurs were wiped out allegedly by this giant meteor where they all just like wow those diplodocus are whipping up their tails okay time for a final fact of the show and that is Andrew Hunter Murray my fact is that more and more scientists are describing their findings as astounding right so this is a study of scientific papers from the last 40 odd years and it's by

[00:27:12] the researchers at the university medical center of Utrecht Utrecht in the Netherlands there are actually four different ways and so they found that in scientific papers that are published more and more researchers and scientists are putting positive words like novel or amazing or spectacular into descriptions of their works and they're also using other descriptive words more a bit more so amazing assuring astonishing bright creative encouraging enormous excellent groundbreaking innovative phenomenal reassuring and robust and spectacular and unique and unprecedented a novel the word novel now appears in seven percent of papers in pub med which is this huge online database of papers and the researchers have jokingly said that at this rate every paper

[00:28:01] will be described as that by the year 21 23 there was a guy who wrote a book about weird newspaper articles from like the 19th century and he I think searched for a singular coincidence or a singular example of something which obviously should mean it only ever happened once but they used it all the time in Victorian times that's great yeah who was saying was it some one of you who was saying about Sherlock Holmes stories the other day I was talking to someone about this and they pointed out that every single Sherlock Holmes story starts with Watson saying in all the cases we ever dealt with this was the most singular so there are a couple of flaws in the study because it's just picked it's based on certain words so it doesn't take into account all language but they

[00:28:45] do think that it genuinely highlights an actual problem with scientific language is it a problem is it a problem that scientific papers are using the language of discovery for their discoveries yes I am on your side actually like I read a headline that was scientists left and then this is the quote gobsmacked by astounding Pluto images so yeah you would be gobsmacked and astounded by Pluto images yeah but I don't think you would be if you had sent a camera to look at Pluto it's still it's you'd be gobsmacked if you'd never sent a camera to Pluto the images arrived where did that camera go this is typical of you and me well you would expect that you work with Pluto so the word astounding comes from thunder tonnaree and it means like to leave something

[00:29:34] thunderstruck where does the word gobsmacked come from I think it's just been smacked in the gob there's another cool thing about scientific language so they've it's analyzing scientific language looking at word frequencies and things there was a scientist called Deedrick Staple who got the nickname the lying Dutchman in 2011 he admitted that he made up a lot of data he's a psychology researcher and researchers at Cornell University in New York looked at his papers and they knew which ones were fake and which ones the data was fake and which it was real and they worked out that he used more science related terms to describe his methods when he was writing up fraudulent findings than when he was writing up real ones so they can identify to 70 accuracy

[00:30:24] which is so there's a long way to go but they can identify when he's lying which is interesting so if that could be rolled out to other forms of language that would be amazing forensic linguistics yeah that is fascinating because there's certain like tricks I don't I don't know the more like in interrogation where you can study not the content of the responses but the word count of responses it's a certain police technique where you're not really listening to the answers but you're listening to the number of repeated words they're using and they say I did that I did that I did that I did that I did that I did that it's because if you if you were at a scene and you were actually there then you don't have to draw on your imagination as much so you use a different control the kind

[00:31:12] of repetition of language there was a scientific paper with no words in it that I found it was by a guy a clinical psychologist called Dennis Upper which he wrote or didn't write in 1974 and it was called the unsuccessful self-treatment of a case of writer's block that's the scientific equivalent of John Cage's four minutes 30 yeah exactly that nice that's great you can instead of like in for 4 30 but you talked about this the other day you talked about 4 33 and and how it's about the audience noise and the orchestra noise or the pianist noise is that just reading that paper you just as a scientist have the internal thoughts of disappointment yeah you project onto it you project your yeah yeah wow wow that's really cool I went on to um google news and looked for

[00:32:03] the word astounding um to see what people are describing as astounding at the moment it's astounding that 10 households in western supermaire still watch black and white telly according to one the most recent headline I found see there we are I'm not astounded are you not I'm in I'm intrigued yeah I thought that word was going to be indifferent as it came out but no intrigued was much more interesting yeah I mean those must be a rarity now and I'm sure the sets have a certain value to a collector or a condo and you pay a cheaper license fee yes you do yeah the next astounding news story I found was officer hands out an astounding 19 000 parking tickets in a year now that is astounding yeah I'm surprised that you wouldn't say well you would expect that

[00:32:49] he's a parking boy and then the third one that I found was it's astounding seven black and white tv licenses are currently in force in Pontypred wow so it's the word astounding outside science papers is mostly used to describe tv like it is now that is astounding okay that's it that's all of our facts thank you so much for listening if you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things we've said over the course of this podcast we can be found on twitter I'm on at Shriverland Andy at Andrew Hunter M James at Egg Shaped and Helen at Helen Onig yeah and Helen's got a bunch of gigs coming up as well the first one is this coming Sunday which is the 24th of January and that is in London and that's Festival of the Spoken Nerd so you can go to that and also you're doing a

[00:33:40] new show aren't you on the last Tuesday of every month we are it's called an evening of unnecessary detail and it does exactly what it says on the tin even your own Andrew Hunter Murray is doing our Casio night special it will be astounding it will be okay if you want to listen to all our previous episodes are on our website no such thing as a fish.com you can also email podcast at qi.com Anna who used to be on the show she will be back next week she will answer those emails and we'll see you again next week for another episode goodbye
