# No Such Thing As A Fish - No Such Thing As A Sticky Shell Spoon

- Episode date: July 15, 2016
- Source: https://podscripts.co/podcasts/no-such-thing-as-a-fish/no-such-thing-as-a-sticky-shell-spoon
- Slug: no-such-thing-as-a-sticky-shell-spoon

## Transcript

[00:00:02] Hello, and welcome to another episode of No such thing as a fish, a weekly podcast coming to you from the QI offices in Covent Garden. My name is Dan Schreiber. I am sitting here with Andy Murray, Anna Chazinski, and James Harkin, and once again, we have gathered around the microphones with our four favorite facts from the last seven days. And in no particular order, here we go. Starting with you, Andrew Hunter Murray. My fact is that farmers in Botswana have started. painting eyes on their cows bottoms to stop lions from attacking them. So good. We don't need anything more.

[00:00:49] Time for fact number two. Does it work, Andy? Well, this is the really interesting thing. This is in the trial stages at the moment. So it's by a British conservation biologist called Neil Jordan. He works in Australia and Botswana. So we're in Botswana here. And he wanted to trick lions into thinking.

[00:01:09] thinking that they've been spotted when they're sneaking up on a cow or when they're So he's been working in the Okavango Delta and he did a trial last year where 23 cows had eyes painted on their bottoms They all survived and in the rest of the herd there were 39 cows which were not painted and of those cows Three were eaten by lines so it's a very small sample size so he is literally I wrote to him and said and you paint some eyes on my bottom please And he, this coming Monday in a few days, is going to Botswana again. He's going to try a larger sample group. And the idea is that it's a very cheap way of stopping a herd being eaten.

[00:01:47] So the cost of painting a herd for a year is much less than the value of one cow being eaten. It's not cheap if the cows value their self-respect though, is it? No. It's probably a very expensive social sacrifice. They look like elephants, actually, because of their tails sticking out between the eyes. I'm going to put a photo on my Twitter feed, Andrew Hunter M. and you can see what they look like. They should teach them to reverse as well.

[00:02:10] Have they told them to walk backwards to make it really realistic? You know, they did the same thing to people for the same reason? So in 1989, I found this in an old edition of the New York Times. In 1989, thousands of face masks were issued by the Forestry Reserve in India to a bunch of people who were living near the Ganges where tigers kept killing people and the face masks were to wear on the back of their heads. And they found that within something, like a year and a half, nobody wearing the face mask on the back of their head.

[00:02:39] So they had a face on the back of their head, got attacked. And... Wait, so the way to avoid tiger attack is to look at it in the face? Yeah, they won't jump at you. Of course they will. Tigers would obviously rather sneak up on you from behind. I think they're not attacking you because you've got two faces. It's like if you go to a supermarket and you don't buy the kind of...

[00:02:58] The straight bananas. Yeah, the bananas that look weird. You don't buy them. You only buy the ones that look nice. So there's a company which has started selling ugly fruit and vegetables, isn't there? Because they're cheaper. They sell really mischapen, disgusting-looking tomatoes, but they're completely the same nutritionally. They do it in France, I think.

[00:03:13] Yeah. And they just had a new rule in France to say that supermarkets have to give any food, which is about to go past sell-by-date to homeless people. That's so good. Yeah. A lot of them did it anyway, but the laws come in now to say they have to. Can't believe we don't all do that. It seems so obvious. Speaking of cows' bums, very quickly, have you guys heard of? I hadn't heard of this, So I apologize for this is very well known, but have you heard of cow blowing? The idea is that they want to induce more milk from the cow.

[00:03:42] So what they do is they lift up the tail and they blow into its butt. No. Or vagina. So it's one of the two. There's always a common thing, isn't there, where people say, milking a cow, who was the first person to ever think of that? Like, that must be one sick individual. But then I would say it's an even sicker individual who first blows into a cow's vagina.

[00:04:05] And they think, wow, they gave me even more milk. I agree. I know. But, like, weirdly, it is done. And Gandhi supposedly didn't drink milk because he hated this process. So he was like, if you're going to blow cows, I'm not going to get involved. That's one of his famous quotes. Actually, it's attributed to him. I think it might have been Churchill.

[00:04:25] There is an actual quote just for the sake of saying it, since I had come to know that the cow and the buffalo was subjected to the process of Fuka. It's called Ph. okay, A. Of course it is. This is all made up. I had conceived a strong disgust for milk. So it's called, yeah, it's called cowblowing or pork. And wait, do you just have to get in there? They sometimes do it with a tube. Or they sometimes sometimes with a tube. I should have always. Oh no, you should watch YouTube videos. That are amazing. Sorry, Gary, we've, we've forgotten the tube today again. Oh, no, Gary, that's the wrong end of the tube. Oh, Gary.

[00:05:02] No, Gary, you're meant to blow. It's also called insufflation. And yeah, it's quite common in African countries in Kenya and Tanzania. I think they do it quite a bit. But you should watch videos. It looks hilarious. They just lift up the tail and thrust their noses right in there, didn't they? Because it's been around since Herodotus, who was the first person, the first...

[00:05:26] I know. I know. It's not a great start. Any scientific thing. But Herodotus described this happening in horses. So he said that people would insert a tube into the mare's anus, then blow. Not the mayor. Oh, yay!

[00:05:42] So this fact is about bottoms. Yes. This is not the only bottom-related story in the week's news. Yeah. So I don't know whether you've seen this, but in the Times recently, there was a tiny article about a robot bottom, which has been invented for doctors to learn how to do prostate exams.

[00:06:00] I'm very indebted to Tom Whipple, who's the science editor at the Times. So he told me about, bit about this. It has prosthetic buttocks and an adjustable rectum. The really exciting thing is what this is designed to replace. And there is a system at the moment, which is that there is someone in the UK whose job is rectal teaching assistant. He goes around the country lending out his bottom to prostate trainees. Is there only one person? It's only one person in the entire United Kingdom who goes around with his bottom. I've written to his people, but they haven't got back to me yet. He has people.

[00:06:35] He has people, yeah. So is he furious that this robotic bum is now? He's very glad, and he won't be losing his job, because he is also very important. It's just that he's quite overworked at the moment, because it's just one of him. But they've developed a robot assistant. He provides very useful feedback on what the procedure is like from a patient's point of view. Presumly you can't feel anything at this point. Oh, come on.

[00:06:59] And he can't possibly have the average rectum anymore. I think this man's a bloody hero. I really do. Yeah. How did he fall into that job? That is incredible. So this guy probably doesn't suffer from another condition called Dormant's Bottom Syndrome. What is that?

[00:07:18] This is a real syndrome. It's a guy called Chris Colber, who's a sports medical guy, and he reckons that the increased sedentary lifestyle of humans means you sit down all the time, and it means your gluteus maximus doesn't get enough exercise, and the muscle isn't strong enough, and it means that the increased sedentary lifestyle of humans, and it means you sit down all the time, and it means you sit down. means you sit down all the time and it means your gluteus maximus doesn't get enough exercise and the muscle isn't strong enough and it means that other parts of your leg get a lot more stress or your knees might get more stress or your hips might

[00:07:40] because a lot of work that would be done by your gluteus is not done by that anymore. That's very interesting. Wow. Cool. So a good way to avoid the agonising knee joint pain I'm already getting age 30 is to stand up more. Do more squats. Do more squats.

[00:07:54] And then you won't have dormant bottom syndrome. That's amazing. Have you guys heard of Skipper Caterpillars? No. No. These are very cool animals. Basically, caterpillars get preyed on a lot, and one of the ways the predators find them is they trace them by their poo. So it is bad as a caterpillar to be near your own poo.

[00:08:12] But Skipper Caterpillars, they have a trick, which they can do, which is to fling their poo as if from a catapult. They have a flap under their anus, and they build up blood pressure, to build up pressure and pressure and pressure. And then eventually they fling their poo. they can fling it 40 times their own body length in maximum. So that's the equivalent of a human being able to throw their own poo, 80 metres.

[00:08:35] Wow. You do get arrested for that as a human. You should warn. 80 meters. James, that's really far. Yeah, I know it is, but I'm thinking like, okay, let's say a discus world record is going to be around 80 meters like that.

[00:08:50] Yeah. That's a discus. They don't get to do the spin before. But you could flatten your poo into a discos. Also, you're not throwing it with your own anus, are you? Oh, that's true, yeah. If it was the anus discos,

[00:09:03] I think the record will be much lower. It'll be a great spectator sport. Amazing. The shit pot. Or the discars. Okay, it is time for fact number two, and that is James. Okay, my fact this week is that

[00:09:25] my top speed running in armor is the same as the top speed of a snowflake falling to wear. How have you tested this? No, so I read this in a study by Graham N. Askew et al. It's in the proceedings of the Royal Society. And they said that a 38-year-old man can sustain a maximum speed in armour of 1.7 metres per second. And I'm not quite 38, but I'm a bit out of shape. So I reckon that's about my maximum speed.

[00:09:55] And according to the internet, especially the telegraph of the 7th of January 2010, the average snowflake has a top speed of 1.7 metres per second as well. Oh, so you worked this out? Yeah. Because I was looking for the article when you mentioned this, and I couldn't find the scientific experiment where a man in armor raced a snowflake to a destination. It takes the average snowflake an hour, the journey from the cloud to the ground. Does it?

[00:10:20] Yeah, it's an hour's trip. Oh, that's all is in an hour's run. Amazing. This is the fastest that a snowflake can reach, I think, rather than the average here. Right. Okay. Is the Hussein Bolt of snowflakes? Yes, you're quite right.

[00:10:34] Some of the things that are 1.7 metres per second, according to the internet. It's the speed when ponies tend to change from walking to trotting. Nice. It's the kind of average speed of a 100 metre freestyle racer during the 1972 Olympics swimming. And it's the speed that traps. DOR ants, trapdoor themselves away from predators because they can kind of jump away from predators. But for them, that's really fast, isn't it? Because they're tiny. Yeah, exactly. That's very cool. 1.7 meters a second. I'm struggling to get a grip on how fast that is. In miles and hour, is that like a really fast walk? Or is it a small short run?

[00:11:11] Yeah, it is. You could probably run about twice that, just under twice that speed without any armor. Because actually, armor isn't as heavy and awkward as people used to think it was. There's this kind of meme of people in massive suits of armor, hardly be in. able to move at all, but actually that's not true to life, because obviously that would be ridiculous in a battle if everyone could just kind of move very slow. And apparently those swords weren't as heavy as we think they were either, because the other thing is that swords are these huge, like, incredibly

[00:11:37] heavy weapons, and actually they were never more than five, five. I don't know of five, I thought five was quite heavy, actually. Oh, I've been working out. This is interesting, because there was a study in 2011, which put knights on a treadmill, or put people in suits of armor on a treadmill,

[00:11:59] and they got tired. They thought the one problem was that you're wearing a back plate and a breastplate, and basically you can't take a huge breath in. You can only take small, shallow breaths, which means that you do get quite tired quite quickly, because you can't get enough oxygen to your muscles. So this new study seems to completely contradict that one. I'm not sure. I mean, you say they got tired.

[00:12:19] Did they put them on a treadmill at high speed for eight hours? because we need to qualify at what point they got tired on the treadmill. They ran for 23. They found it used twice as much energy as doing the same thing without armour in this previous experiment. Well, actually, this experiment as well, they're saying yes, definitely it takes more energy and it's harder to walk at any speed in armour. But actually, it's just not as much as you think. Right.

[00:12:44] Well, okay, so here's a thing. You know, they have actual joust these days. I mean, there are genuine competitions which take place. So there's one woman. called Nikki Willis, but she jousts as, oh, it's St. Retham, because she's from Streatham. Or she says she's of St. Retham. So she's brilliant. And she has just taken part last month in the first ever competitive joust between a man and a woman. Oh, great. And I didn't know this about jousting. Do you know what you get points for? I think it's where you hit them on the

[00:13:13] body, isn't it? Exactly. It's not knocking someone else off. It's like a dartboard. It's like a dartboard, yeah. And the article I read said it was a pre-arranged thing as though you have You have to, like in pool, where you name the pocket you're going to sink and you say, right, I'm going to hit him on the shoulder or whatever. I'm not sure whether it's that or whether it is just like a dartboard where you get most points facing them in the helmet. I thought in the olden days it was like treble 20 would be your helmet. If you got them on that thin line where the eyes are. Jousting didn't really exist in medieval times. It was the Malay that was the big sport that they do, which in the Malay was lots of people galloping towards each other.

[00:13:48] and a bit of a sideline at these big Malay festivals would be the Jouse, which no one really watched and no one cared about. And then these ideas of chivalry and this one night ruling above everyone and attracting the best women and stuff came into the four in Tudor times. Then the Jouse became the centrepiece of these tournaments.

[00:14:05] I remember reading about the Malay, wasn't it? I read about one where it was like the French and the English were all taking part and then the French kind of cheated or the English cheated. The English cheated, but they copied the French. So the English cheated, by saying they weren't going to get involved in a Malay. I think this was in the 15th century.

[00:14:22] They stood in the side and went, oh, you guys carry on, and then as soon as everyone else was tired and lost all the fingers and stuff, they kind of ran in. Yeah. There were several nations fighting. I think that was it,

[00:14:30] and the English just sort of hung around on the edge. Maybe we should have done that in the Euros, just sat out the first few rounds, and then rocked up. Put it the wrong way around, guys. Do you know what's, um... So this is a cool thing. The whole medieval thing got kickstarted in the 19th century.

[00:14:44] They had kickstarted back then. Yeah. Yeah. No, it was in 1839. There was a thing called the Egglinton tournament. And it was this quite eccentric lord called Lord Egglinton, who just said, I'm going to revive the idea of chivalry. We've been going without it for too long.

[00:14:59] And he hosted this massive medieval tournament. But it was in Scotland, unfortunately, which meant that it was a total washout. Like huge rains, huge storms, huge winds. And the whole thing was a disaster. And the tilting yard had this huge roof. There were huge crowds. And then it started leaking. And basically the crowds did.

[00:15:18] not come back on the second day, but he just had paintings done, which made it look amazing. And then everyone else said, oh, well, this is great, we should do this? And if one looked at those and went, oh, do you remember the great tournament of 1836 or whatever? Exactly. Oh, cool. You know, there were quite a lot of paintings of female jousters and knights in armour. Because you were mentioning one earlier, and you think of women as not having been really involved in that. But there were a few female knights in history.

[00:15:43] I can only think of Joel of Arc. There's Joan of Art. I can think of that lady in Game of Thrones. There was obviously her, I think she was... Brian of Taft. Yes. Yeah, 14th, 15th century, Breon of Taft. Yep.

[00:15:55] There was a noble woman called the Countess Jean de Pontievre. But there are quite a few medieval depictions of women in armour jousting and stuff, but it was thought to be improper to show them with something as phallic as a joust. And so they'd show them in jousting tournaments, carrying a distaff, which is one of those needles that you wrap wool round when you're sewing. You would think that instead of painting the joust, they paint like a vagina or something. I thought you were going to come up with a weapon that looks like a vagina. I couldn't think of any.

[00:16:26] If I could have thought of one, I would have said it. I know. There aren't, are there? No. It's harder because longer and pointier things is what is traditionally used in battles. Yeah. A bear trap? That's pretty messed up, Ben.

[00:16:43] Don't blow into that vagina. Okay. It is time for fact number three, and that is my fact. My fact this week is that archaeologists have started throwing artifacts into skips because there is now too much history for them to store. There's just too much history. They're finding too many bits of history, and all of their backrooms are getting clogged up,

[00:17:06] and they don't know what to do with them. It costs too much to store them. So they just have to throw them away. What happens is you put it all in a landfill, and then in another thousand years, they come to this landfill with loads of different times of history. They'll have some Victorian. stuff, some Roman stuff, and they'll think, wow, all these people live together with TVs and

[00:17:25] time travel happened. They cracked it. This is one meeting point. Guys, we're screwing with the future. This is terrible. We need to leave notes in landfill saying, this did not all come at one. It's really interesting because they're being told lots of local community archaeology groups find things. They take them to museums, but because of lots of funding cuts, the museums then say, we have no storage. And then I think they have to give them back to the people who own the land it was found on. Yes. And those guys who own the land might just keep them in their house.

[00:17:55] And if they die or move, then their inheritance of the next people might think that this is rubbish and throw it away. Yeah. And the museums have to charge. It's like taking out a PO box, as it were, for mail to be delivered to, from somewhere that's not your house. It's you pay for a box if you want something to be put in a museum. And that can range between £20 and £600.

[00:18:17] So you're effectively saying, I'd like to donate this. bit of history to you guys, but then I now need to pay to have it stored as well, and people can't afford that. So just things are being thrown away. Oh, that's terrible. And it doesn't sound like people are finding, you know, full statues of Cleopatra and chucking them away. I think it's obviously shards of pottery that do have amazing, you know, inscriptions on them and so on, but they have lots of examples of it. Yeah, there was an excellent article on Cracks. I love it when Cracks does articles written by someone with this job, but there was this article on Cracked by an archaeologist called Hadass Levine,

[00:18:50] and she's an Israeli archaeologist, and she said they throw away about 65% of what they find, and the bits of pottery that the only bits of pottery that are useful at the bottom and the top, because it's only at the lip and the base that you can really date it, and all the stuff in between, you just chuck it straight back, unless it's got, she said, unless it's got some really cool thing, like an engraving of a penis on it, and then obviously you keep it, because we love that. They're very similar to us in that way. But remember, Andy, you ages ago were telling me about,

[00:19:15] the fact that there was a new train system that was being built and as they were digging this was in Istanbul I think and as they were looking there was just too much history Rome Rome was having another underground line built at the moment and they just they had to delay it three times now because they keep finding oh well it's another massive barracks full of statues and you know ancient important stables

[00:19:38] and things like that happened with crossrail a bit as well didn't it they get finding things they kept finding plague pits when they first built the tune yeah yeah I I think there's a kink in, I'm going to say it's in the Piccadilla line, but obviously some people listening would know, but I think there's a kink in it which goes around a plague pit. Yes, right. That must be a classic problem of anyone building underground rail. And I think if we mentioned before, with HS2, there was an archaeologist shortage.

[00:20:03] And there still is. Yeah. If you're listening to this and you're wondering what to do with your life, become an archaeologist. Or go around letting people put their finger up your bum. There's a shortage in that, too. It's just a binary choice now. All the other jobs are filled. I went on to a website called,

[00:20:19] it's a tumbler, called archaeologist problems. And there's a few of those. One of them is being asked if giants really exist, but their discovery is covered up by the museums. Apparently that's something they get asked quite a lot. I thought I was being original with that question. Archaeologist Joys,

[00:20:40] finding massive amounts of well-preserved artifacts in one small location, followed by archaeologist's problems, said small location is a privy and the smell is stuck on your clothing, your hair, your field gear, everything. So that's the problem they have. Also, a problem they have is

[00:20:57] getting teased in Europe for sharpening your trowel and getting teased in the US for not sharpening your trowel. Archaeologists can be so cruel. Yeah. But I think this is a good tip because, Andy, you're saying that people should become archaeologists. maybe if you're going to become one then make sure you always sharpen your

[00:21:17] trowel in the US but don't do it in Europe you better have got that the right way around James if you're responsible for the rampant bullying of all archaeologists henceforth if you're going to become an archaeologist maybe become a US one so if you get into a fight with a non-US archaeologist you'll have a sharp

[00:21:33] trail so just on things being thrown away by mistake in 2014 Bournemouth Council they launched this new scheme where it was a food waste collection service and you basically had your own little bin which clipped on inside your bin and then bin men accidentally threw away a hundred of the little bins isn't that matter you know a huge number of coins get thrown away coins that add up to a massive value so i was looking at a study which was called a statistical analysis of coins lost in circulation

[00:22:05] and uh it said that in 1995 but i can't see why it would have changed much uh the average one cent coin in America had a 0.3 circulation rate. So I think that probably means for every one coin that you put in circulation, you get 0.3 coins back. So pretty much 70% of coins never come back in. They just, well, you know, you chuck a coin into like a pot and you never use it again, or it falls down the back of the sofa. Or down a well. Down a well. Happens with pennies especially. So they've estimated that $3 billion worth of pennies go missing every year. Every year. Yeah. If you could get all those pennies, but you can't. You can't, and I think it ceases to be legal tender after you pay 20 p's worth of copper.

[00:22:48] What? Seriously? Something like that. It's 20-something p, I think. So if you want to pay for something and you want to pay just in pennies, they can still accept it if they want to, but they don't legally have to accept it anything over. I think it's 20 people. That is fascinating.

[00:23:04] There are those machines now, though, in the supermarkets where you can put them in. You'd probably be there for about... If you have $3 billion. I did, they have those in Australia as well and when I moved there temporarily and I was unemployed, I had no money. But my boyfriend had a lot of change lying around the house,

[00:23:18] so I went and collected it all up. Collected or stole? You went over at night when he was asleep and collected it. But yeah, I remember just feeling like such a weird person walking up to the bank with this enormous suitcase full of coins. It was something like $400 worth of coins.

[00:23:34] It was great. It got me through the next year. Yeah, he's ridiculous. He holds it. If he hoards it, it means he was collecting. Which means you stole it. Look, he'd never noticed. Did he also collect his television as well?

[00:23:46] One American bloke, he walked around the town he lived in, and he would go on long walks every day. And whenever he passed by car wash, he would just feel in the chain slot in the vacuum machine, you know, you pay a few coins and you get to use a vacuum machine to hoover the inside of your car. He made an average of $5.60 per trip, and over a decade, he made $21,000.

[00:24:06] Wow. Just from that. It's actually still not enough to live on, is it? Nope. It's a really nice bonus. But I'm also thinking he could be using his skills for better use, because what he's doing is he's putting his finger into a small hole and feeling around. There must be another job that he can do.

[00:24:25] I can't think of anything. Okay, it's time for our final fact of the show, and that is Anna Chazinski. Yeah, my fact is that restaurants in 1950s Vietnam punched high. holes in their soup spoons to stop people stealing them. It's amazing. It's so weird. So I read this in an excerpt from this cookbook called the faux cookbook by Andrea Noghuyen. And yes, she was saying under communism in the 1950s, a lot of people were stealing cutlery from restaurants.

[00:24:57] And so restaurants decided that they would punch holes in the middle of soup spoons, which she described as making the soup a lot harder to drink. It had to be gulped down extremely quickly because otherwise it dribbled all out of the spoon before it got. your mouth. But apparently it was to stop people stealing them. It's weird that, isn't it? Because you would think either the hole makes it completely useless that you can't drink out of it, or it's still okay, in which case you can use it in the restaurant, but you can also still use it at home. Exactly. By the end of your meal, you've mastered the use of a holy spoon and you bring that home. Yeah. Well, they actually did it again. I found one other newspaper article citing it being

[00:25:34] done in 1993 in Russia in the city of Cheboxer. and it did conclude that this anti-theft device did not work. So this was saying that the anti-theft idea in this place was to put holes in the spoons and then diners at the cafe were instructed to ball up pieces of bread that came with their meal in order to plug up the hole in the spoon. It's amazing how much stuff gets stolen from restaurants. I didn't realize this. Jamie Oliver said he lost 30,000 napkins.

[00:26:00] Oh, I don't know whether it was a month or a year now. Oh, yeah. But it was some vast number. His napkins have got like branded Jamie Oliver on them or something, don't they? says Jamie Oliver on them, I think. Have we mentioned the Virgin thing before? He's not children, Dan. I don't think we can make this out of.

[00:26:17] He's a virgin. No, Virgin Airlines had a similar problem years ago. They had these little plain salt and pepper shakers, and people kept stealing them because they just looked so cool. And so they thought, rather than combating it by stopping production of it or trying to work out how to stop people from stealing it, they ended up just having a little embossed thing at the bottom, saying, pinched from Virgin Airways.

[00:26:42] And it became a huge marketing tool. Everyone loved the idea. So they were encouraging people to steal them. This is like Wahaka had an amnesty on stolen spoons recently, actually, because I think Wahaka's spoons are also quite distinct. I think they're big and round and plastic. They're like plastic, aren't they? Yes, and colourful. So they had an amnesty where they said, if you return stolen spoons, then we'll give you free food. And there were posters up which said, sure, they're irresistibly bright. And some say ergonomom. perfectly perfect, true, there's no final ladle for your last mouthful. But please, please, can we have them back? Um, the state parliament in Russia, the Duma, they had a lot of problems with people stealing cutlery in 2004, at least they did. Um, they were losing 30 to 40 spoons

[00:27:24] and 15 forks a week. So they're losing that much per week. And, um, there was a guy, an MP called Sergei Glottov. And he thought that basically, because they didn't have a gift shop, Whenever anyone came, they just thought, oh, well, I'm going to have to take something, so I'm going to take some coterie instead. Right. When I went to Russia, lojska, which is spoon, is one of the few words that I learned, and people kept over the course of the week nicking me spoons from around the place. Because you just kept saying lochka, lochka, and people found it very amusing, and they gave me, I came back with about half a dozen spoons. Wow. Loshki meaning spoons is also a musical instrument, I think.

[00:28:05] The spoons, yeah. Yeah, it's like the spoons, but they're like decorated and they're big. Cool. I have some at home. Nice. You should have gone around Russia as saying the words, learn the words for slightly more valuable, exciting things. Yeah, I should have. I said, I was saying diamond, diamond.

[00:28:16] I should have learned that. Yeah, so disappearing spoons seems to be a major thing to the extent that the British Medical Journal in 2005 published a report called the case of the disappearing T-spoons's longitudinal cohort study of the displacement of T-Spoons in an Australian Research Institute. And it was a study where they investigated. the lifespan of a teaspoon and how soon it would be stolen, and they worked out that the half-life of teaspoons was 81 days. If you wanted to have an institute-wide population of 70 teaspoons in this research institute, you would need to buy 250 teaspoons in one year. And their conclusion was that the loss of workplace teaspoons is rapid,

[00:28:58] showing that their availability, and hence office culture in general, is constantly threatened. We suggest that the development of effective control measures against the loss of teaspoon should be a priority on national research agendas. It's Fox in this office, isn't it? Yeah, it is. We need to get into another study on this office. Remember when you guys accused me of throwing away all our cutleries?

[00:29:16] I still think you might have accidentally thrown them away. I didn't do it. As if they were an archaeological fight. And I'm an Australian, so this is matching up with this report that you just read. It is very odd though. So we, you know, like little things like coasters. The prime example is Byros. Like Byros just go.

[00:29:33] Douglas Adams says this whole riff about, you know, they squirrel a little and away through space time to their own dimension. But it is bizarre. I frequently put three byers in my back and I end a day and I've got none. Yeah. Where are they? They're in my back. And I was collecting them. I think it's basically anything that's low value, right? So if it's low value, you don't really care about it so it just goes missing. Whereas if you had really nice pen, then you probably would never lose it. I was looking into other kinds of spoons that we've had throughout the years. My favourite spoon, so far, one I've not heard of,

[00:30:07] ear spoons. Have you heard of ear spoons? That's so cool. Historical artifact. It's for getting wax out your ears. Yeah, pre the Q-tip. It was, you'd have a spoon with a little, with a long handle, and you'd shove it down your ear, and you'd try and dislodge the wax inside and come out with a nice spoon for the wax.

[00:30:24] I think I have one. Do you? I think so. We haven't been using it enough, James. I'd look to it. Sorry? It went in a few years ago. In the E-series of QI, we found out about these things.

[00:30:37] And you can buy them readily online. And I think, I haven't seen it for years, so maybe I haven't got it still. But I thought I bought one with a light on it. So you can kind of go into the ears and kind of look at... No, I know. I do see the problem with that. I think it's for other people if you're kind of digging... If the light comes out of your eyes, you know, there's no wax in your ear.

[00:30:59] No, and also I remember reading that, and I don't know if this is kind of a bit of a funny pages thing, but apparently earwax picking of your loved one was kind of a bit of a fetish in Japan for a while. Yeah, it feels like just a made-up thing, but I remember reading articles about it, so. Here's the thing about spoons. In 1909, the Huddersfield Examiner reported

[00:31:23] that there had been a competitive spoon cleaning competition. Pretty cool. That is such a good way to get everyone to do the town's washing it out. Do you know what the first ever spoons were? Do you know what they were made from? Oh, would. They were made of shells tied onto sticks. Says who?

[00:31:43] Says my researchers. Okay. Okay, the Latin word for spoon is cochleare, and that comes from the word for shell. So I think that's the thinking. Yeah, but you're not going to find any sticks and shells. Not that Dan's throwing them all the way with the office forks. But you're not going to find that in an archaeological way. So I can see the language thing.

[00:32:06] But even then, it could be the shape of it, just reminds you of a shell. Possibly, possibly, not sure. Might you find it in a cave with just not tied together, but like just sitting next to each other. You don't know. I mean, you're always going to find sticks and shells next to each other. When I go to the beach and I see a bit of driftwood at their shell, I know, there's an ancient cutlery set. you've got to use your imagination in the final work James so do you know one of the oldest spoons that exists in this country is yes it's my

[00:32:37] sticky shell sorry there's a sandy shell and then hot on the heels of that this is the only piece of medieval regalia we have so stuff from things that we use in medieval royal ceremonies and it's the coronation spoon. So the most sacred part of the queen's coronation is when she gets anointed, which is when the Archbishop of Canterbury in private puts holy oil on her, I think it's her breasts, her hands and her head. And he uses this coronation spoon, and it's from the 12th century. Wow. I just think that's incredible. It's almost a thousand-year-old spoon. The breasts it's seen. In China, restaurants are pining, bring your own cut-rey movement.

[00:33:25] because huge amounts of cutlery get wasted. So it's weird that we pick up plastic cutlery and a lot of the cafes that you go to, for instance, in London. And it was worked out that they were wasting something like, it was something ridiculous, like 80 billion pairs of chopsticks a year in China. And so in Beijing there's a bring your own cutlery movement where a whole bunch of restaurants now, hundreds of restaurants across the city, don't serve cutlery.

[00:33:46] And if you forget to bring your own cutlery, then you're bugger, I guess. That's a really good idea. It's a really good idea. Yeah. And they used to do it in medieval times. Everyone would have to bring their own knife, isn't they? Yeah, you just have a knife on your best. belt and that was the nice of you for meals.

[00:33:56] That's exactly what we wanted London. People walking around with knives. Okay, that's it. That's all of our facts. Thank you so much for listening. If you would like to get contact with any of us about the things that we've said over the course of this podcast, we can be found on our Twitter accounts.

[00:34:13] I'm on at Schreiberland, Andy. At Andrew Hunter, James. At Eggshade. And Shazinsky. You can email a podcast at QI.com. Yep, where you can go to at QIpod. That's our group Twitter account. Or you can go to No Such Thing as a Fish.com.

[00:34:27] where we have all of our previous episodes. We'll be back again next week with another episode. Goodbye.
