# No Such Thing As A Fish - No Such Thing As The Metal Bloke

- Episode date: June 18, 2026
- Source: https://audioboom.com/posts/8918202
- Transcript source: OpenAI gpt-4o-mini-transcribe transcription from official RSS audio
- Note: Machine-generated transcript; may contain transcription errors.
- Slug: no-such-thing-as-the-metal-bloke

## Transcript

[00:00] Hi everyone, welcome to this week's episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, where we are joined by the legendary, by the superstar, by the all-round top guy, who is Nish Kumar! And now anyone in the UK will know all about Nish. He is very often seen on our televisions, and now he is on our podcast. If you are not from the UK and you're not familiar with Nish's work, then after listening to this episode you will surely want to go to YouTube. If you search for Nish Kumar, you will find a full recording of one of his shows and it's definitely worth checking out his stand-up because it is brilliant. If you are in the UK or in Ireland, then maybe you want to go and see Nish live. You can go to nishkumar.co.uk and you will find all the dates of his tour there. He is doing a work in progress at the Edinburgh Festival and then he is going on the road in September and he is very likely to be at a town near you. If you'd like to know more about us, then go to Patreon, patreon.com.clubfish is the place to go. You can sign up there for free and get lots of little bits and pieces, or you can sign up to one of our tiers and get even more. In fact, if you go to the Plenty More Fish tier this week, you will get an extra-long episode of this show. In fact, you always get one of those, but this show is about 20 minutes longer than the actual episode and that is because Nish Kumar is so knowledgeable about so many different things, especially the subjects we talked about today. And so there are so many extra bits, extra facts, extra jokes, extra anecdotes, and it is all in there. But if you don't wanna do that, do not worry. Just sit down and listen to this week's episode with Nish Kumar on with the podcast. Hello, and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you from the QI offices in Hoban. My name is Anna Dchinski and I'm sitting here with James Harkin, Andrew Hunter-Murray, and Nish Kumar. And we have gathered here today with our four favorite facts from the last seven days. In no particular order, here we go, starting with you, Nish. My favorite fact that I've gathered in the last seven days is, after James Cameron was fired from the film Piranha 2, he broke into the studios multiple times in the dead of night to improve the edit. What a hero. Yeah, he cares that much about the craft. Also, it's so funny to think of the word craft associated with the film Piranha 2. Yeah. It's not Bong Joon-ho saying to me, this is cinema. It doesn't quite feel, it doesn't quite feel like that. To give him his due, I think that is part of the reason why he is, I think he occupies, I think about maybe four or five of the 20 most profitable films of all time. Maybe not profitable, but most financially successful films of all time because the sort of common thread of all of his movies is this sort of almost operatic grandeur being applied to very sort of mainstream, conventional films. They get elevated by his sociopathic commitment. So hang on, is Piranha 2 in the top 20 grossing films of all time? Because I haven't seen, it's one of the Cameron oeuvre that I haven't seen. Yeah, right. I don't think it's in the top two of the Piranha films. I think all of the Avatars are floating around in there. Oh yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And so are the Titanic. I think it's cheating when your sequels count, which people do it with Avatar, they count Avatar and its sequel. It's like, lump them together. Because yeah, if you know this one's grossed a lot, then the next one's probably. But then it will just be Avatar Marvel. And then I think, like, it'll have to be like Police Academy. Police Academy. Yeah, I think that's it. What I found mad about reading about Piranha 2 is how, like you say, it's surprising that James Cameron cared enough to break into the editing suite, but how seriously they all took it. Because you think, surely if you're working on these films in any role, you know you're making a joke, don't you? Well, no, Piranha 1 was huge, right? It was a big movie that did really well. It was Joe Dante of Gremlins fame, I believe. And then Piranha 2, Cameron had been hired to work on it. And we should say, it's his first ever film he'd worked on as a director. And he was hired to work on it by the producer. And it sounds like it was a nightmare to work on. And he was fired quite quickly. Yeah. They filmed in Jamaica the outdoor Piranha bits and then they actually moved to Rome for the indoor bits. And he was fired at the end of the Jamaica bit. So that's why he was breaking in. He was breaking in because he'd been fired from the project, but his name was still on it. And he thought, this is so bad, I can't let it go out like it is. I think the thing was, there was this guy called Ovidio Assonitis. Yeah. It's like TOVIDIO, it's almost his first name. Yeah. And he really wanted to be the director, but because he was half Italian and half Egyptian, the American movie industry wouldn't let him be the director. So we had to bring someone in, and his idea was, we'll bring a new person in. They won't do anything, but I'll be the real director. But then he brought James Cameron in, who kind of took it a bit seriously. So unlucky. One of the most dementedly single-minded people in cinema. Because as far as he knew, he was a 28-year-old nobody, right? He was like, good, I'm getting an intern on. And he was obsessive. Was he like, is he a Roger Corman guy? I think he comes out of that sort of, Cameron comes out of that stable where they were just sort of all being trained to do everything in film and then sort of thrown out into the wider world. A couple of years ago, I went to the Academy Museum in LA, where they sort of have various bits of film ephemera. And they have his concept sketches for the Terminator. And when you look at the concept sketch of the Terminator, you go, that looks exactly like the film. It's exactly like the film. And so the thing that you, my main takeaway from looking at those sketches was, this is a guy with a vision. And this is a man who I imagine will walk through and over anything he has to. Yeah. He does come across as that. Yeah, he's the Terminator. Yeah, he is the Terminator. In a way. I bet he thought he was the hero of that, but he was the villain. We need to tell you about Terminator 2, but that's another matter. I watched those movies so many hundreds of times when I was palpably too young to be watching them. Because my parents would stop us from watching things like, I remember my parents saw Pulp Fiction. And it's kind of the worst thing they could possibly have said to me, because I said, how was it? And they said, really brilliant. And I said, oh, great, can I watch it? And they went, no. But why would you say that the movie was good? I was like 10 years old. I was like, why would you say the film is good? But they saw the Terminator box and they thought, yeah, it's robots and lasers, who cares? And then, you know, meanwhile, they're sort of walking the room and a guy's using a-

[07:00] Pouncing pen to dig his eye out. I do, I do think my mum at that point was like, oh, OK, I think we might have misread the situation here. I mean, some people still aren't really sure what Terminator is about. Look, I was impressed by what I learned. I'm just going to get a message out on my phone that we received from Anna. What's embarrassing about this is my first serious relationship was with a guy, it was for three years. And he was obsessed with the Terminator films. Anna, please, we need to read out the evidence before we have your response to it. Anna Tadjinski. The concept of Terminator is absolutely mental. I just thought it was about a metal bloke killing people. Which at the most basic level, it is. Nothing you've said there is incorrect. I suppose it has more layers than I expected. Yeah, you've not disproved your initial assumption. Metal Bloke is actually sort of a perfect description of Terminator. Of Terminator. There was a real fight, like between Terminator and Robocop, my childhood was defined by metal blokes. Yes, we have Piranha 2 to thank for Terminator. I didn't know about this. So basically, Piranha 2 happens and it's a disaster. He develops a high fever. He's in Rome. Yes. So at this stage, he's not being paid anymore. Is that right? No, he's off the clock. But this is the story. This is the crazy inception of Terminator. He's hospitalised with this really high fever. But while he's in hospital, probably because of the Piranha 2 stressful. And sacking all of that. He has this vision of a skeleton robot coming out of a fire. Metal Bloke. Metal Bloke. And crawling. That's the only bit of Terminator I've seen, is that scene where he's crawling at the top of him. I don't know what happened to the bottom, but he's crawling towards that woman. I couldn't work out whose side I was on. So in the Piranha 2 debacle, Asinaitis, sounded like a bit of a douchebag as well, the producer. But I mean, he did talk about James Cameron. And like, he is obviously a massive control freak. And he said, so Asinaitis, I don't know if I'm pronouncing his name right. But Asinaitis. That's better. And that was much better. What's in the name of Super Mario Bros? He did say Cameron was very arrogant. And he said at one point he just came out of his office and he saw his crew, the entire crew, and set way out in the distance, out to sea, on a bunch of boats when they were meant to be on the beach filming. And the first assistant director was fully clothed, swimming towards the shore. And he got to the shore and he pulled himself up onto the beach. And he shouted at Asinaitis, that guy is a maniac! As in James Cameron's a maniac. I'm out of here. And so Asinaitis was like, what's he done? Why are you all out at sea? He was like, James Cameron saw the perfect shaped cloud. And he knew we had to film it. So the entire crew and set is now on a series of boats out at sea chasing a cloud. Is that just following, chasing after it? The whole thing with clouds is like, oh, that one looks like a giraffe. Oh, it doesn't look like a giraffe anymore. They change shape. That's so weird. And listen, maybe this is, you know, and I say this as a huge fan of his work, and maybe this is a bit of snobbery on my part, but when you hear stories like that about Kubrick or Kurosawa, you're like, yeah, of course, you have to get the perfect thing. What you're making is this kind of, this is a sort of work of art. When you hear about Piranha 2, you think, have you lost your fucking mind? The other thing that I always like to bring to this, this is actually something that James Acaster introduced me to, and it's a real obsession of his. So in the book, The Futurist, The Life and Films of James Cameron by Rebecca Keegan, she narrates a story about the shoot of Aliens. And Aliens shot at Pinewood, and I think Star Wars shot at Elstree. And both of those films have the kind of same experience, which is an American director doing a science fiction film that a British crew of, you know, pretty hardened union guys cannot have any respect for whatsoever. And like they used to call, when they were shooting Star Wars, they used to just refer to the Chewbacca costume as the dog. And so on the final day of shooting Aliens, so this is according to Rebecca Keegan's book, this is what James Cameron says to the crew. This has been a long and difficult shoot fraught by many problems. But the one thing that kept me going through it all was the certain knowledge that one day I would drive out of the gates of Pinewood and never come back here and that you sorry bastards would all still be here. That's his like rousing end of shoot speech. That's what Dan Schreiber says to us every episode of this show. Before he goes on holiday. One day, I thought there were huge problems with tea breaks. Yeah. Yeah. Star Wars and Aliens alike. Basically, the crew know very clearly when they're union tea break. You get a union tea break. And Cameron is there being an auteur and saying, but we need to film for 28 hours to get this perfect shot in the perfect way. And they're saying, well, we can't. We're going for our tea break. I love it. I read that he made movie posters Cameron before he got into directing. And that he basically didn't watch the films because they're all terrible. So he just got the name of it and he would just make something that he thought looked cool and then send it in. But it meant that he was really a control freak with the posters for his movies. And so with Aliens, some guy showed him what he thought the poster should be for Aliens. And he said, honestly, if I have the choice between that piece of shit and an all black frame, I'll go with the all black frame. And this guy obviously wasn't really listening. And he then went to his designers and went, he wants an all black frame. And then we have the iconic site who just says the word Aliens. Yeah, right. Yeah. I think the strapline is this time it's war, because the idea is in the first film there's one alien. In the second film there are thousands. And it's, you know, it's kind of a bit of a Vietnam analogy. You know, disastrous, overconfident American Marines heading into a war that runs out of control. But I think supposedly he invented the this time it's blah. Really? Well, maybe it was that before this time it's personal. I know that was Jaws, wasn't it? Jaws 2. Was Jaws 2 this time it's personal? Was that not first Jaws? Like first Jaws is business. It's business. It's business. Third Jaws, this time it's pleasure. And it's about the shark and Brody going on a lads holiday. Do you know what? We have Jaws to thank for the Terminator. Oh, really? Because we have Piranha 2 to thank for Terminator. Yeah. Piranha 1 to thank for Piranha 2. And Piranha 1 only existed because it was like a rip off of Jaws. And Steven Spielberg went to watch it and they were going to sue and say, you can't make this. And Steven Spielberg enjoyed it so much. He was like, oh, don't sue them. This is really great. And is that why? Because then he, Joe Dante then, he produced Gremlins. Yeah. So then they worked together afterwards. Well, that's amazing. That's really cool. We have so many things I haven't seen to thank for so many other things I haven't seen. It's a-

[14:00] What were you doing? We're the same age. What were you doing? I didn't know. I was going out. We should move on to fact number two. That's my fact. My fact this week is that the inventor of stand-up comedy was known as the man who talks with string. What? Because he was never, well, I will tell you what. Because he was never seen anywhere without his lucky string. Consider yourself admonished. That's what? I thought that said what, as if you weren't going to clarify. So that was just going to be the end of the discussion. Moving on, fact number three. The inventor of stand-up comedy was known as the man of string. Okay, anyway, who's got a fact about Roger Corman? I just also want to clarify, he's not a man of string. He's not made of string. He just carries string. So we've got metal men. We've got string men. Metal men, sure. He talks with string, as in he talks, but he's holding string. Exactly, yes. This is a guy called Charlie Case. He tends to be referred to as the person who invented stand-up comedy, although obviously there's a lot of facets to stand-up, so lots of rivals in that claim. But he was born in 1858, so it was late 19th century. And this is in a book called The Legacy of the Wisecrack, which I mentioned because it had some other interesting bits in it. And he was basically the first person who took to the stage, as it says, with the explicit purpose of telling jokes to make people laugh. No props, no costume, they say, although at the time almost everyone did blackface on stage, and he did do that. But I read he was mixed race, right? Well, it's very unclear. Yeah, the records are a bit. His obituaries say they think he was mixed race, but black people and white people at the time would go in blackface. And black performers blacked up sort of as a way into the industry because of the white performers. Is that it? Yeah. Very strange. And we really don't know with him. I think he probably was, but people didn't mention it in his life, and then in his obituaries everyone was like, he had a black parent, and he had this string that he always carried on stage, and he fiddled with it constantly. Couldn't be without it. A couple of times he forgot it, and if no replacement could be found, he just fully, you know, broke down. He said, I might as well be without my hand. And he explained it. He said when he first went into business, he wore a pair of black gloves, and he would fiddle with them and toy with one of them, pick at the fingers. And eventually, a bit like when you give a baby a rag, and then after five years you realise it's just a string, he picked at his gloves so much that they just turned into a string. Like a blanket rather than a rag, usually. Why are you giving your baby a rag? Give your baby a rag. No, you know what it is? This is, we need to start toughening up the younger generation. They're too woke. Give them a rag. But there you go. So he needed that, and he, you know, he really did. He couldn't be without it. That's amazing. And I guess, like, is to do something with your hands, right? I think so, yeah. Yeah, exactly. I didn't think, I've never heard this man's name in my life before. That's fascinating. That's really interesting. He makes sense that it's in that period because he is sometimes referred to as the turn, and I never really understood why that was. And it's because in vaudeville shows, when they were turning the set from, you know, the acrobat to the sort of marching band, they would put the curtain down, and somebody would come out and tell jokes to stop the audience from getting bored. So they were turning the set behind the curtain. So the person telling the jokes is still sometimes referred to as the turn or front-of-curtain entertainers. Oh, really? Gosh, I love that. Yeah, it's like, it's, you know, particularly like a lot of the, like, old-school guys who do lots of gigs at, like, Blackpool or sort of Butlin's will call us front-of-curtain. And we were basically just there to stop the audience getting bored. Sometimes, obviously, it had the opposite effect. I mean, it depends on who you employed. Oh, listen, I'd have really struggled in the vaudeville years. I'd have been a real struggle. Half the audience have left and they are asking for their money back. They thought they were going to see elephants, and instead they've seen a man yelling about David Lloyd George. He was really sticking it to Gladstone back then. In this, we need to clear the stage at the end of the show, so if you could come on then. Clear the auditorium. So this guy, was he British? Was he British? Oh my gosh. Charlie Case, I think he was American. American, okay. Because I think he was American. They were also, they had the same sort of tradition of vaudeville. When you do stand-up in a match-and-theatre, like the Victorians, say what you will about them, they knew two things. Colonising my ancestors and building theatres. And when you do stuff in a match-and-theatre, you understand, oh, this is what this is built for. Because the acoustics are so unbelievably good. A thousand-seat room has the same sonic dynamics as a 300-seat basement or a 250-seat basement. It's unbelievable. You know, I'm thinking of something like, the Hackney Empire has loads of stand-up. They have a pantomime every year. And then Robin just did a gig there. Like when her last album came out, I think she did like a special sort of small gig. And so you're like, there's very few places where you can put, like, Robin, a pantomime, and me. Can I just ask Andy which Robin you thought? I did think Batman and. Well, I did think so. I thought Robin Ince. Was it neither of those? Neither of those. No, it was Robin. It was Robin. R-O-B-Y-N. Isn't there also, isn't it Robin Thicke? Robin Thicke. Robin Thicke is a popular musician, opposite end innovation-wise. Possibly considered a D innovator. She threw pop music forward five years, and then he actually was a useful corrective to set it back. Robin Thicke. Yeah, he was an unfactor. He's sort of the equivalent of the barbarian horde smashing up Rome. I thought, isn't he on first-name terms with Robin Thicke? Is this likely? It can't be. Ince makes more sense, because I am on first-name terms with Robin Ince. That's what I thought. Thicke and I, I'm going to amaze you here, we've never crossed paths. I was looking at some superstitious comedians. So I looked at Hilda Baker, who was a Bolton comedian from the 1950s. And she considered the colour green to be so bad luck that you weren't allowed, no one was allowed to wear green in the whole theatre. But apparently this is quite a common thing, or it certainly was in the mid-20th century. And the reason is that Moliere, who died on stage during The Hypochondriac, was apparently wearing green when he died on stage. I've never heard this before. That's also why, because Tommy Cooper, of course, died on stage wearing that square red hat with the black tassel. And no one, no one wears that anymore. I didn't know Moliere, Tommy Cooper. That's incredible. They didn't call it that back then. In The Hypochondriac as well, so all this guy. Was he playing the title role? Oh my God. Oh my God. So people thought it was part of the. And would he be coming off, you know, in between scenes?

[21:00] I'm really not feeling well. And they're saying, Ah, I know, of course. He's Daniel Day-Lewis-ing it. Of course, we don't call it that now. But that was the thing with Tommy Cooper, right? He collapsed and people thought it was a bit. Yeah, absolutely. Are you superstitious, Nish, about any aspect of a show? I'm trying to think about sort of pre-show rituals. The most important thing that I always do is I always piss before I go on stage. I can't be obsessed. Even if I don't need it, I'll try and force one out. And I think part of it is because I read this thing. Apparently, David Cameron used to give speeches on a slightly full bladder because there's some there's some idea that that’s an episode of Friends as well. Joey gets a role where he really needs and they're just so impressed by his urgency. His urgency, yeah, because he needs to pee. And then he starts doing it for every role. Apparently having to pee makes me a really good actor. That's not your shit, is it? It's like really cutting. Yeah, it's much more scientific. So this was a thing that existed. It was called the Talent Selection Group. And it was a BBC institution that pulled together various radio producers. Right. To just assess everyone who wanted, you know, to be played on BBC Radio. Right. Yeah. So how old was he in 65? Very young, very young. He was 69 when he died in 2016. And I can't I'm now struggling to do the basic mathematics. So he would have been 18, 17 or 18. So he was he was very young and playing with a band. And the band was called David Bowie and the Lower Third. And it doesn't sound like it was a good audition. I mean, you know, I don't think it's too. I mean, when you're 18. Exactly. I see the picture of him. He must have been playing the sax and singing, I think, possibly. Well, they did three songs because that's what you brought to the Talent Selection Group. One of them was by Bowie himself. One of them was by James Brown. The third one was chim chimeree from Mary Poppins, which is a rogue choice. That makes 100% sense to me. Like if you think about his music, it is music that exists at the intersection between James Brown and Mary Poppins. Like actually think about this. If you really think about it, there is like this interesting combination of black American music and English whimsy. And actually there is there is something of both of those in Ziggy Stardust. Well, if you've been on the talent selection group, maybe it would have gone differently. But another verdict. I don't think the group will get better with more rehearsal. Just devastating, you know. One of the most withering things I've ever heard. They could give them all the time in the world. They're not going to change, you know, terrible. That was terrible. And you've peaked. That was brilliant. It's a bit like...

[28:00] Simon Cowell, isn't it? Would you say? Like that kind of slightly withering sort of... Yeah, yeah, yeah. And I don't think it was big dogs. I just think it was random producers from across the Beeb who were pulled in to, you know, assess. And they assessed a load of different acts. And, you know, they came up with various quite ropey judgments on acts who went on to be huge. But it's an audition. It's at the very start of your career. They don't all go well, you know. And it took ages to get successful. I hadn't realized. I think by 1969, so before he was at all famous, he'd already been in seven bands, many of which he founded. Then 1969, Space Oddity was rushed out to coincide with the moon landings and was like the theme tune for that and was huge. But then he disappeared again. And I don't think he had another hit for about four years. Yeah. No, he didn't disappear. He was just simply moved. He was living in Bromley, which is essentially the same place. Sorry, he was in Beckenham at that point. But yeah, he was sort of that period of his life after he turns 18, he kind of gets very fixated on this like mime teacher who is like a really, really influential person in his life. But also, it's worth seeking out some of the kind of first album, which I think is self-titled or maybe it's called Space Oddity. It is. It's David Bowie. It's worth checking out that era of it because it is not, I say this as a very, very big fan of his. You've hidden it well. Sorry, no problem. Well, of course, Beckenham is in Bromley. It was. It's bad. Oh, wow. But it sort of Bowie at this point is, he sort of goes through so many different iterations. And yeah, he falls in with, he goes, studies at mime school. Then he, the first album is sort of very like flower powery, like tail end of summer of love hippy stuff. But then the shift between that and The Man Who Sold The World is extraordinary, right? It is an incredible transition. He basically really gets into the Velvet Underground. And that is the thing that kind of unlocks. He's just trying all sorts of things. He's trying so much out. Can I just say one thing on the mime thing, because I found out a little about this. This is insane. So he falls in with this mime artist called Lindsay Kemp, right? And becomes so entranced that Bowie nearly abandons music for interpretive dance. When he was, again, not very famous yet, he opened for T. Rex. He supported them on tour as a one man mime act depicting China's invasion of Tibet. Brilliant. And that is a challenge. That's a challenge, right, as a one man. That's my favorite. There are a few of you. You've got to think outside the tiny invisible box. Basically, the T. Rex audience hated it for two reasons. One, come on, we're here to see T. Rex. And secondly, a lot of them were communists and very pro Tibet. So this was a few months before Space Oddity came out. He later wrote to John Peel, who'd seen this and said, you decided the problem was that I was doing mime. You didn't like mime. And until I came here to America, I never realized that you were right. Nobody in the world likes mime. It is an insane period. And listen, thank God that doesn't exist because I imagine it doesn't now look high art. It looks like Mickey Rooney in Breakfast at Tiffany's. I imagine, I imagine. But weirdly, that's, you know, Lindsay Kemp was a huge influence on him creatively and they were lovers at the time. When you look at things like Ziggy, when you look at the video for Ashes to Ashes, even though that was sort of because he was also falling in with the new romantics in the early 80s, you still see the influence of theatre and mime. Oh yeah, definitely. Yeah, it was, I mean, we loved him anyway, but also it was really exciting because I went to school in Orpington, down the road from the school he went to. But he lived in Beckenham and they tried to get him to come back in the early 2000s. He was like, absolutely not. When he went to America in interviews, he would refer to things as being so Croydon if they were bad. But he was, that's why, you know, like the Buddha of Suburbia, the whole novel is really about growing up in Beckenham and Bromley and feeling depressed until you realize David Bowie lived there. Like how that like unlocks the protagonist's creativity and sexuality. And it's the same with Hilda Baker, the Bolton comedian from the 1950s. Oh yeah. Like everyone from Bolton. You've only just started wearing green now. One of the formative moments of his life came from that time in Beckenham slash Bromley, where he's, so he's famously his eyes sort of look like they're different colors, don't they? And this has actually put me off him a bit. And I messaged Dan Schreiber, cruelly, we're doing a podcast about David Bowie, who Dan Schreiber absolutely loves. But saying, I don't really like him. And I think it came from this. When he was 15, he had best friend George. They both fancied the same girl. And George got a date with her. And Bowie called George and said, listen, I've spoken to her and she doesn't want to go out with you actually, but she doesn't want to say to your face. So George doesn't show up, then finds out Bowie's tricked him and then goes into school next day and Bowie's boasting about how he's now going out with this girl. So George, quite right, goes and clocks him in the face in the playground, damages his eyeball. Said he really didn't mean to hurt him, but well, it meant to hurt him a bit. Fun way of going about it. I would hurt him emotionally when I punched him in the face. Yeah. So he didn't mean to cause him permanent damage, but it gave him this condition called Anisocoria, where one pupil is larger than the other. So his eyes aren't different colors. It's just one pupil's small, so it looks like his eyes are like colored. And I really like this from an interview with a magazine. I think someone had written into the magazine with questions for Bowie. And one of the people said, hey, what would you say to that kid at school who punched you in the eye in case he's reading? And Bowie said, I'd probably say something along the lines of, it was great seeing you last week, George. Did I leave my lighter in your car? Because they remain very close friends. You said that he almost gave up to be a mime. He also almost gave up to be a Buddhist monk, didn't he? Did he? Yeah. And that's because he got in with some Buddhist monks in London, but also he read a book, The Rampa Story, by Tuesday Lobsang Rampa, who Andy remembers as a friend of the podcast. He's a big deal. He is a big deal. Because he was not a Buddhist monk. He was in no way a Buddhist monk. He was a plumber from Devon who pretended to be a Buddhist monk and wrote about his life as a Tibetan monk until people kind of came to his shows and said, can you read this thing that's in Tibetan? And he said, I can't really read Tibetan and I've never been to Tibet. And he said, oh, it's not my fault. I was possessed by the spirit of a monk when I fell out of a tree trying to photograph an owl. That's right. That's right. And that.

[35:00] And then they said, yeah, that's not true, is it, either? And he went, oh, no, no, fine. Actually, it was all dictated to me by a Siamese cat called Mrs. Fifi Greywhiskers. But the point is that a lot of the Buddhist sort of things that was happening at the time and everyone getting into Buddhism was down to this guy's book, and he was completely... That's amazing. Mrs. Fifi Greywhiskers, because the cat later wrote, I think, two of her own books through Tuesday Lobstang Rampert. One of them was called Living with the Lama. It's hard when a cat writes a book called Living with the Lama, because I think you do have to clarify in brackets afterwards that you mean the Lama as in religious Lama. You can do a lot with the cover-up. I'm afraid you are not getting away with the James Cameron black square on that one. That is essential that we clarify with the cover-up. That's so funny. I didn't know there was a Bowie ramper highway of understanding. That's amazing. So what, you Bowie fans, what's the view on the whole Thin White Duke, quite intense flirtation with fascism, Nazism, that kind of stuff? One word for the Nazi stuff. Your friend of mine, cocaine. If you watch the Alan Yentob documentary Cracked Actor, which is his US tour, I think, in 76, 75, 76, you can't believe he didn't immediately drop dead. The rumors at the time that he was subsisting exclusively on a diet of cocaine and milk. But the thing is, he is in a psychosis. He's coped himself into a psychosis. There's a bit in it where he just starts going, they're following me. They're following me. And he is truly in a kind of psychosis. And I think people want to intellectualize it and say, well, he had this fascination with the night. It's not any of that. He did read a lot of books about the Nazis. I think people want to talk about it as a kind of intellectual, like an extension of his interesting character and performance. He was gacked out of his mind. And I don't mean your friend who's standing too close to you at a party and asking if everyone hates him. I mean, he was seeing things. He was like David Bowie was such an extreme party animal that he had to go to Berlin to clean up. He had to go to Berlin to get drugs out of his system. That's how many drugs he had in his system at that point. Can I just say, reading lots of books about Hitler and the Nazis is not actually a sign of anything. It's just a sign of being a middle-aged man. I'm currently plowing through the last days of Hitler. It's terrific. That's it, really. No spoilers, please. I saw him on the last tour he did in 2004. And he sort of had a, he had something like a kind of heart valve problem about two months later and then he never toured again. He sort of would make like these intermittent public appearances. But I went on my own. This was in a period where I was going on my own to see a lot of gigs. And I saw him and James Brown in kind of quite quick succession. Oh, and Mary Poppins, I hope. And Mary Poppins. And the David Bowie gig is the only time someone asked me if I was lost and needed help. Wow. Oh, wow, the only time. Are you okay? Are you lost? And I was like, no, I'm here to see. I'm here to see David Bowie. And I've always carried resentment towards a man who was sat two rows in front of me wearing a Lou Reed Transformer t-shirt. And I, at the time, I remain a big Lou Reed fan, but I was really a big fan of the Lou Reed album Transformer at the time. And Bowie said, we're going to do a song by the Velvet Underground. And I cheered. Bear in mind, I'm at this gig on my own. And I assumed the man in the Lou Reed t-shirt would also cheer. And he didn't. And I was like, you're the fan of only Lou Reed's solo output. You've got no time for White Light, White Heat. Maybe he's not, just not a cheerer. You know? Well, he really made me look like an absolute twerp. I would say the smallest grudge I've ever heard carried for the longest time because of how long you've kept something. 22 years. I still think about that guy. And I'm like, that guy in the Lou Reed t-shirt. We should move on to our final fact of the show. And that is James's fact. Okay, my fact this week is that the Swedish political party called the Centre Party and the Danish political party called Left are both right wing. Are they trying to just nab sneaky votes from left-wing people who haven't heard of them? No, not really. So I was reading an article on electoralreform.org.uk and it was a list of badly named parties. And basically, these parties all started off kind of left of centre 100, 150 years ago. And things changed. Like the Democrats and Republicans have swapped over a couple of times, I think, of what they believe, right? And also, what's that window called? Overton. The Overton window moved, so people who were a little bit left wing or a bit right wing are now more centrist or whatever. And that's what's happened with these two parties, which is the Swedish Centre Party and Venstre, which is the Danish for left. And the Danish one is the main right-of-centre party and has been for 25 years. And the Centre Party, it depends on their leaders because they are a little bit centrist, but at the moment they're more right wing. But you can't change the name. It's easier to change your opinions, I guess, because everyone knows what the party is. Everyone knows the name. You're not really tricking anyone because everyone knows, everyone in Denmark knows this party. I like that you say it's easier to change your opinions. You're suggesting rather than change the name, they should just become left wing. I wasn't really suggesting anything. I hadn't finished that thought. But it is a bit like if Krispy Kreme doughnuts were like, we're plumbers now, but we've got a really strong brand identity. You could just change it. No, no, Krispy Kreme it is. Listen, I will say, in terms of tailoring this podcast episode to your guests, this could not be more clearly my internet searches. Our electoralreform.org, James Cameron's Wikipedia page, and a video of David Bowie talking about the internet. Denmark also has the Radical Left Party, Radikale Venstre. Where are they? Where are they at? They're on the left, but they're the least radical of all the left wing parties. Something with radical in its name is centrist. It's so good. It is the problem. And listen, I am painting with a broad brush here, and I understand there is more nuance to these things. But it is sort of the problem of talking about Scandinavian politics because you're like, these guys are really right wing. They only believe in partially comprehensive state cover-up. I think the thing that distinguishes them is there are parties that are basically parties that are like, that are socialist socialists, and there are parties that aren't nationalist socialists. Like there are...

[42:00] Wait, when you say nationalists, socialists, that has... Yeah, yeah. At least you get a few bucks at the bottom. Yeah, there's still some people, there's still some consensus around some economic principles, but I think there's some more divergence around... So we believe in everyone gets a year's maternity or paternity, but we do also believe in evading poverty. Is that it? I believe there's an element of that. There's a lot of anti-Muslim sentiment among certain parts of Scandinavia. So there's a guy called Rasmus Paladin, who's a former member of Venstre. He's probably the most famous right-wing politician in Denmark, and he's like burned Korans and stuff like that. But there's a group called Free Jazz Against Paladin that follows him around the country and plays jazz very loudly and very badly at all of his events. Is jazz the right... I'm not saying they're doing it badly, but is jazz the right genre of music to... I suppose it's quite surprising, you know, goes in new directions, which is quite useful. Although, famously anti-communist jazz, wasn't it? It was pushed by America to kind of stop communists from liking communism. Was that it? Well, and also the musicians themselves were not aware sometimes, genuinely not aware. Nina Simone died without ever knowing that she had... She was a CIA asset. Yeah, that an African tour bus. Oh God, guys, you've got to watch a movie called Soundtrack to a Coup d'État. Soundtrack to a Coup d'État is an incredible film about these American state-funded operations to send jazz musicians as kind of soft power missions around the world. It's one of the best documentaries I've ever seen. And they didn't know that they were being... They were important. Yeah, they didn't know where the money was coming from, but also, you know, a lot of these... Like, we've had another $300 million in the account. No one likes jazz this much. Sorry, what's the reasoning that it's the CIA stops people liking communism? Specifically in the African continent, sometimes they were cover operations for the sort of travelling state department delegations that would go out with them. But also a lot of these musicians did not have rights in their own country. And there's some really heartbreaking stuff in the documentary about Louis Armstrong and the kind of disgust that he feels because he does understand that he's being used as propaganda for a white government that is not giving him rights in his own country. It is really, really brilliant and sinister. And what was done to Lumumba in that country by Western governments in service of the mining companies, because they might have liberated these countries, but they did not take the huge mining companies out of those countries. And the cobalt in phones still comes from the Democratic Republic of Congo. And there are still Western countries that might not have colonised them in the conventional sense, but the large corporations that are exploiting these countries for their mineral resources are effectively financially colonising them. And now this podcast has really taken the full Kumar turn. Because in the Soviet Union, the idea was that they had certain approved musicians and approved literature and approved all this kind of stuff. So if you shove in some jazz singers, some surrealist art, stuff like that, then people will start thinking in a non-communist way. That's sort of freedom. That's the idea. Jackson Pollock, was he... Yeah, he was. They just wanted to get rid of him. That's really interesting. So more weird names in politics. Have you guys heard or have we ever talked about the tiny Indian state of Meghalaya? Meghalaya? This place is extraordinary. So there's a weird trend for weird names there. Like loads of people there call their kids weird names. No one really knows where it came from, just like people from this Indian state call their kids strange names. Which means that people who run for political office often have weird names. So people who've run for political office there include Frankenstein Momin, Field Marshal Moolpiang, as in first name Field, second name Marshal. Great. That's good. Billy Kid Sangmar, and someone who's gained office there is Adolf Lou Hitler Rangsak Marak, who's an Indian politician of the National Congress Party. He was a minister in their government. He was asked if he felt awkward about it, and he said, I am aware at one point in time Adolf Hitler was the most hated person on earth, but my father added Lou in between the Adolf and the Hitler, so that's why I am different. Andy, you were very disappointed when you got his biography, weren't you? A lot more regional Indian politics than I had really bargained for. And the cover was just a black square. We really could have done with the clarificator as the cover art there. I think it's interesting how political parties arose in the first place. I think they were invented in Britain. Certainly in Britain, it was the Whigs and the Tories. And that was the end of the 17th century, and it was all to do with the question of Catholic succession, which was a big deal for a long time and it was very controversial. And the Whigs wanted... it was about the Duke of York, actually. Should the Duke of York be in the line of succession? And what do we think now? It's a debate that rages on. The Whigs are coming back going, I told you! Yeah, Whigs wanted him out and Tories were much more arch traditionalists and they wanted to preserve the succession, but it's true. So what they were trying to conserve was the Catholic line of succession. Yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, it's maybe a bit upside down from what we think today. Were they called the Tories and not the Conservatives at that time? Tories was originally an insult. It was a kind of Irish bandit. And I think Whigs is also a kind of insult. Every party name starts off as an insult and then devolves into the actual name. Stupid dickbag poop party. Yeah, exactly. You've got to be careful the insults you embrace and the insults that you classify. But yeah, in actual, because we were talking about Swedish politics, Sweden was dominated by the hats and the caps for about 100 years. They were the two parties. And the caps was an insult. So the hats were meant to be the like strong militaristic. They were named after the big tricorn hats that like proper posh people had, members of government and military. And then they said, are you nightcaps? And they were referring to the, you know, those floppy like wee woolly nightcaps. Really? And did they wear them? Like, did they embrace it and wear them on the campaign trail? I don't think they actually went to the trouble of sourcing nightcaps and embracing them, but they embraced their names, the caps. And they were like, they were the Whigs and the Tories of their day. Are they still worn, would you say, nightcaps? Because I want... You obviously do wear one. Well, I've got one, yeah, yeah. But I just want to know if anyone... I would be curious if anyone wears a nightcap. People wear bonnets to help manage curly hair. Yes, that's true. Bonnets are still used. Are they used night... are they called nightcaps? I don't know. Were there many bonnet wearers? They're normally known as bonnets, I believe, still. Were they used to keep your head warm? Is that the point of them? I assume so, yeah. Because it's so much colder back in the day. Yeah. I would assume that it's... It's the little ice age. If you still wear a nightcap to bed, podcast at QI.com. Absolutely. Send Andy a picture. If anyone's still wearing a nightcap, with love, they are listening.

[49:00] Let's be honest. A big Ebenezer Scrooge number. That's the one I want. That's the one I want. Do you want to come on upstairs for a nightcap? Just two people sat in hats, one of them looking confused and disappointed. I'll get the warming pan. I do like a frivolous party. Oh, yeah. I'm a big fan of the occasional protest parties. One of them, I mean, the Wikipedia of frivolous political parties is terrific if you just want to read through. So many places that have frivolous parties, it's beer-related. It's very interesting. There's the Friends of Beer Czech, Belarus Beer Lovers Party, Austria Beer Party, Australia Lower Excise Fuel and Beer Party. It just goes on. Germany, Norway, Poland, Romania, Ukraine. They've all got a Beer Lovers Party or a Beer Party. There was definitely a light beer versus dark beer political rivalry as well, I think, in the late 19th century. Yeah. But I like, in Denmark, the Union of Conscientiously Workshy Elements, which I don't think we've actually mentioned before, founded by Jacob Haugard in 1979. And so they were demanding lots of mad stuff, and it was a complete joke, like better Christmas presents for everyone, Nutella for all army field rations, better weather, tailwinds on all bike paths. Better weather. More Renaissance furniture in IKEA. Oh, yeah. I love that. Yeah, of course, you'd back it, Andy. But in 1994, he was elected. Haugard was elected unexpectedly. Really didn't expect to be. He got 23,000 votes. And it was a hung parliament. So suddenly he was in this extraordinary position of having the deciding vote in a lot, a lot of situations. So when the Lib Dems came in and did a coalition with the Tories, they said, well, we will do it if we can have one of our policies, which is proportional representation. Yeah. Which one did he go for? Yeah, they genuinely did introduce Nutella into army rations for a while. Very good. That's amazing. And the Lib Dems didn't get PR over the line. So these guys are still technically one up on the Lib Dems. Did they have a referendum about the Nutella thing? It's an easier one to win, isn't it? He did say in a moment of foresight, he made a portrait of him be hung. He got a portrait done of him and had it hung in parliament. And he said he commissioned it to warn people that any crazy populist moron could get elected. And this was in the early 90s. We learned our lesson. We learned too late. There was a survey this year of places in the North Caucasus. And they asked for people who you think would be a good person who your leader espouses their views. And a lot of people went for Stalin. In fact, I think Stalin might have been the top respondent. But 4% of people said that they wanted their leader to be like T-800 from the Terminator movie. Wow. And we're back. And he, is that the baddie? Or is this the second Terminator movie? It's slightly complicated. He's the baddie in the first one and the goodie in the second one. He gets reprogrammed and he goes from being a baddie to a... He's like Ned Clegg. I see, that's the reverse. That's the old reverse Clegg. It's the old reverse Clegg. In the first one, he's trying to get people to go into the metaverse. And in the second one, he's promising to get rid of student debt. The old reverse Clegg. Okay, we should wrap up on that. Thank you so much for listening. We have been No Such Thing as a Fish. And thank you to my co-podcasters, James Harkin, Andrew Hunter-Murray and Nish Kumar. Nish Kumar, if people want to contact you, where can they do it? Contact me. You can find me at nishkumar.co.uk. And I'm MrNishKumar on Instagram and some other platforms, I think. But you can watch me doing 97 minutes of stand-up if that's something that you'd be interested in on YouTube. Or you can buy tickets for my tour. Or you can do both. No Such Thing as a Nish. Thank you. Lovely stuff. And Andy and James, you also have social media profiles, which we've mentioned lots of times before. So I'm sure you all know them. And you can contact the podcast by emailing podcast@qi.com or go to atnosuchthing on Instagram. And if you want access to our secret special club, which has lots of extra content, we release our dual, which is our listener feedback episodes on there and other exciting things as they come along. Just go to patreon.com slash clubfish to find out more about that. But for now, we will see you again next week. Goodbye.
