# No Such Thing As A Fish - No Such Thing As Doing A Solzhenitsyn

- Episode date: March 26, 2026
- Source: https://audioboom.com/posts/8879242
- Transcript source: OpenAI gpt-4o-mini-transcribe transcription from official RSS audio
- Note: Machine-generated transcript; may contain transcription errors.
- Slug: no-such-thing-as-doing-a-solzhenitsyn

## Transcript

[00:00] service opens doors. And at American Military University, it can open doors for the whole family. If you have a loved one who served in the military, you may qualify for reduced tuition. AMU offers flexible online programs designed to fit your schedule, so you can keep moving forward wherever life takes you. Learn more at amu.apus.edu/military. Open doors to the future for you and your family with the help of American Military University. Hi, everybody. Andy and Dan here. Welcome to this episode of No Such Thing as a Fish. We've got a very exciting guest today. We do. We have the brilliant Deliso Chaponda. Deliso, some of you will know from being a finalist on Britain's Got Talent a few years ago. He's an amazingly funny stand-up comedian, and we were very excited that he was going to join us on the show because he's a big old nerd. He's written a sci-fi set of short stories that you can buy on Amazon and other online stores. But he's going on tour as well. He certainly is. His show is called Topical Storm. You see, because it's about it involves news, and it's about the news. So that's a good title, is what you're saying. It's a really good title. And it's a really good tour, and he's going all over the place with it. Where's he going? Let's see. Stockton-on-Tees, Chipping Norton, London, and various other places of roughly the same size. Yeah, and it's happening now. He's on tour right now, so do get your tickets because you don't want to miss out on it. He's absolutely brilliant. His website is delisochaponda.com. Now, you're probably also thinking, God, it would be great to see Deliso, but damn it, we'd love to see Fish live as well. But you're not doing any shows! Absolutely! And what about a live show involving Anna? Who? Anna Tyszczynski. When she's back very soon. Well, have we got a surprise for you? We're going to be doing a live show this August in Lund at the Lund Comedy Festival in Sweden. Yeah, that's right. We're really excited for it. It's going to be a live show recording. If you have spare dosh to buy a plane ticket, why don't you come from the UK as well? Because it's going to be a great night and it's the live return of Anna Tyszczynski to the stage. Tickets are on sale now. You just need to go to nosuchthingasafish.com slash Lund. That's right. Saturday the 29th of August at 7pm. Come and see our impression of the Swedish chef, live! Oh, dear. All right, yeah. Watch us be booted out of the country. Anyway, on with the show. On with the podcast. Hello and welcome to another episode of No Such Thing as a Fish, a weekly podcast coming to you from the QI offices in Holborn. My name is Dan Schreiber. I am sitting here with James Harkin, Andrew Hunter Murray, and Deliso Chaponda. And once again, we have gathered around the microphones with our four favourite facts from the last seven days. And in no particular order, here we go. Starting with fact number one, and that is Deliso. So my fact is, in 1981, more than one million Bibles were smuggled into China by water. In one go. In one go? It's a lot, because normally you smuggle things, you know, bit by bit. Also, usually, you're smuggling cocaine or weapons, not Bibles. Do you know what I mean? Like, that's what I love most about it. It's like, the way they smuggled it, it didn't go in the bum. It didn't go in the bum. You'd have to have very small Bibles if you put that one. Yeah, there would have been major theological chats about what that implied if you did that to the Bible. You could do it nowadays, though, because now they're USB sticks. Absolutely. Each Bible... Yeah, but when I put the USB stick in my bum, I always put it the wrong way around first of all, and then... Very strong. But, no, so they submerged tonnes of Bibles, literal tonnes. I'm not using the metaphor tonnes. It was, they weighed tonnes of Bibles, and then they submerged them underneath a boat, which was called Michael. Which I think is, honestly, the least sexy sounding name for your clandestine... And, in fact, Deliso, you say tonnes. It's 139 tonnes in weight. 139 tonnes. I know. And I believe they were small Bibles, as in they weren't the huge, you know, big desk ones, because obviously when you are smuggling, size matters. And this is because Christianity was suppressed at the time, is that right? And owning a Bible was an offence at the time? There were a few Bibles, but it was being repressed, and so there weren't a lot of... It was after the Cultural Revolution, and, you know, religion is the opiate of the masses, and it's very vague exactly what the penalty would be if you had it, but there were no Bibles, so they had to sneak them in. Well, people go to jail. You still get people who are going to jail and being released back to... So they're being smuggled over from Hong Kong and so on, and so they'll be sent back after a few years in jail. So you will get jail time. Right. It kind of depends on the moment, but this was a huge operation. This was Open Doors, which is a smuggling industry. This extraordinary thing that was started by one man called Andrew Vanderbyl, who used to smuggle all of these Bibles into different countries, and then this was the ultimate project. How do we get all of these Bibles into China? Can you tell me more about exactly how it works? So did they put it underwater and drag it along, or what? In a submarine? Well, so they built a special barge in the city of Shantou, which was designed to sink. So you do get submersible ships. Yes. We've talked before about when you need to give a, let's say, you've got an oil carrier that's broken or something, you can get special ships which approach, sink beneath, sink underneath, and then lift up again. They're fantastic. And this was a similar principle, and the Bibles were all in watertight packaging, obviously, And they dragged onto the beach. And I'm fairly confident there were loads of believers who were on the beaches and waded in, submerged up to their necks, retrieving these tonnes of Bibles and carrying them up. But also, some were believers and others were businessmen. Because there was a scarcity of Bibles, Bibles were very expensive, so there were other people who were in it because you could sell them to Christians. That doesn't sound very Catholic. And it sort of went wrong on the night that a lot of the authorities saw what they were doing and were arresting people, and a bunch of the Bibles swept away into the ocean. So they thought, okay, that's it. But then fishermen, this is the story, there's so many weird stories about this. One of the stories goes that fishermen saw on the surface these Bibles gleaming like fish, so they brought them in and then they realised, oh, we've got all these Bibles, because they were watertight. So yeah, so the Bibles found a way. And then even there was like some of the authorities grabbed Bibles and they flung them into like sewage and then believers climbed in right after.

[07:00] How interesting. And this guy, so he's called Andrew van der Biel, and he wasn't just China. He did all of beyond the Iron Curtain, right? So it was Eastern Europe. And there were a lot of volunteers because I heard about this because I do a lot of shows like religious shows and I was doing Greenbelt Festival in Cheltenham, which is like a religious kind of Glastonbury. And in the audience, there was one of the people who had volunteered for one of these project pearls. In China or in Eastern Europe? In China. In China. Wow. Amazing. And so he, I think he was doing a talk about it, but I was like, wow. What a story. I read that he would pray to God when he took his Bibles across. And let's say he's going to Eastern Europe, he might take them in his car. Okay, so he's driving through the Iron Curtain and people would check his car and he said he would pray to make seeing eyes blind and the border patrol people would be searching his car and couldn't find the Bibles, even though they were just sat there on his backseat. And he said that was because he prayed to God. That's a modern miracle. I'm surrounded by skeptics. I believe the man. He's dressed as a Bible because if you dress as a Bible, it's in plain sight. Look, it sounds like nonsense, but there's also a level where they're looking for weapons and things. So they'll just see a pile of books and they'll go past it. Do you know what I mean? Like, even though they are illegal, I wonder how high up on the border patrol's radar Bibles are because they're looking for weapons. In the cultural revolution, I think it was, right. And I think in Soviet Russia, it was as well. So do you guys know Vitaly Vitalyab? You know him, you know him. So he used to work on QI for a little bit and he left Russia during the Soviet Union, but he did cross the border a few times and he said when he was on a train and he would cross the border, people would come down the train shouting, Bibles are pornography, Bibles are pornography. Oh yes, great. It's like a personality test. Which one are you? And if you're both, the Bible's pages are stuck together. I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry. That's terrible. And that was like, you had to hand them in when they said that. Yeah, right. I really like the sound of this guy, purely just the adventure. So he wrote a book, Andrew van der Beil. Yeah, he wrote a book which was called God's Smuggler. And it sold over 10 million copies, supposedly, translated into 35 different languages. And every country seemed to bring in its own new Mr. Beanish moment. In Albania, he used to do sort of drop-offs where he would just sort of put the Bible down and walk off. And then people would find it and chase after him going, your Bible, you've left your Bible. And so he was just constantly outed by people returning his lost property. Yeah. But I also think, like, despite them trying to repress Christianity, it grew in China in these years. And I actually think part of it is, if it's forbidden and you're having to smuggle in Bibles, it becomes more alluring. Like, it becomes like, oh, this is the truth because they don't want us to read the truth. And so places like the UK where you've got dwindling attendance, ban it. Ban it for a while. Exactly. The happy moments in the UK where people have been arrested for smuggling Bibles, isn't there? So William Tyndale and his mate who was called Monmouth, but I can't remember his surname. Humphrey Monmouth. So we're talking quite a long time ago. We're talking Henry VIII times. But the thing was that these Bibles were written in English and so they're in the vernacular. And so that you were allowed Bibles as long as they were in Latin. But if they were in English, you were in big, big trouble because the church wanted to control what was in the Bible. They wanted you to only hear what the priest had to say. They didn't want you to read it yourself and make your own ideas. So Tyndale was executed for this, at the time, crime. The man who smuggled them in, Humphrey Monmouth, who was a cloth draper, he was smuggling them in in his ships, he was briefly imprisoned. But within a few years, every church in the country had one of these. And the King James Bible, which is maybe the most significant English translation ever, is one of the most beautiful. Our language is full of phrases from the King James. 80% of it is Tyndale's translation. It's the absolute underpinning of the Bible in English. I have recently read a smuggled book. And I wasn't aware of when I picked it up and looked at it that this was illegal. But I've just finished a book which was punishable by death in Italy at a certain point in history. And it was smuggled in. It's called The Moon is Down. It's by John Steinbeck, and he wrote it explicitly as propaganda. He was working for the US government, early days of American involvement in the Second World War. It's a tale of a nameless European town where a nameless army invades and takes over. There are collaborators. And it's a story of the invading army being resisted by the population. And them slowly cracking up as they realize the awfulness of this war and what they've done will, you know, they'll never be forgiven for it. It will never end, all of this. And the people will throw them out. And in Italy, if you had a copy, you could be punished with death. I've been to the Museum of Banned Books, which is in Tallinn, I think, in Estonia. It's really cool. It's just this very small place run by one guy. It's basically a bookshop, to be honest, that you can buy all these books that have been banned everywhere else in the world. And I think there's one book that even he doesn't keep on display and he keeps under the counter. Really? Do you remember what it was? If memory serves, I think, is it, oh, I've forgotten what it's called now. Is it The Anarchist's Handbook or something? The Anarchist's Cookbook. Cookbook, that's it. Yeah, yeah. Well, that tells you how to build bombs. Yeah, exactly. So, I was at home as last year, I think, maybe the year before. And I was, I can't remember now, this has just reminded me. You go home all the time, though. No, it's once or twice a year. I've got to say hi to the kids. I was going through some boxes and I found a box of books that were given to me by a friend who moved overseas. And I opened it up and in it was The Anarchist's Cookbook. Wow. I didn't know that that was a smuggled book or that it's illegal because it is still illegal to own it in this country. So, that night, on Instagram, I posted a picture of me reading this book, sitting down to a nice book and a glass of wine and I'm holding it. And I posted it and I went to sleep. I woke up in the morning to about 20 DMs saying, take that down immediately. This is an illegal book. People have gone to jail in the UK for that. Put it up your bum right now, mister. And dive, dive, dive. Yeah. So, I didn't know if I had to go to the police to give it to them. I didn't do that. That's embarrassing. I know, right? That book, it actually tells you how to make weapons. But a lot of books which are banned, it backfires because it makes you want to read it.

[14:00] So I read The Satanic Verses when I was a teenager, right? It's an extremely difficult book to read. It's extremely dense. You need to be a university student. But because it was banned, we read it with our dictionaries and tried to figure it out. And I actually think, you know, the banning of it made it more... Absolutely. I still haven't finished The Satanic Verses. I've just started it as of last week. Oh. Can I just say for anyone listening, I've never read it. And I do not intend to read it. Well, there's an amazing book called Joseph Anton, which is Salman Rushdie's whole experience of what happened once the fatwa was put on him. And he was saying that the book is known as something called the page 15 club because most people can't get past page 15 of it. So you're part of a club if you've started and you've never gone further than that. But yeah, exactly. More dangerous because of the banning of it. The banning of it. Can I tell you my favorite book smuggling incident? Yeah. OK, so Cold War, we've mentioned this Eastern bloc. There was a lot of book smuggling into the Soviet Union because there were a lot of banned texts. And the CIA had a program smuggling in works, which they saw as spreading, you know, freedom, democracy, that kind of thing. Things like 1984, The Guardian Weekly, which I find rather nice. You know, because The Guardian did a weekly magazine. And it was all sort of, you know, they smuggled in miniature books in tampon boxes and sugar packets. I mean, I presume tiny. Yeah. But I just love this wonderful detail of the CIA operation. In one instance, Alexander Solzhenitsyn's The Gulag Archipelago, was carried onto a plane to Warsaw in a baby's nappy. Oh, wonderful. In our family, whenever my daughter needs to be changed, we say she's done a Solzhenitsyn. My favorite one is in Romania. So in 2013, there were people started smuggling books into prisons. And this is really interesting. So they changed the law in 2013 that meant if you were in prison for like a white collar crime, let's say, you could get 30 days off your sentence for every book that you wrote. 30 days. You wrote? Wait, wait, wrote? Yes. So if you wrote a book and you knock your books off in two weeks. Absolutely, yeah, yeah. That's why he's back out so quickly. But if you wrote a book, then you get a month off your sentence. So a lot of like people who were in for fraud or tycoons or former politicians or something suddenly started knocking out books left, right and center. Now, have you written a book of short stories, which I have. And it takes a long time. It does. You did those over years and years. Over years, yeah. So what they did is they would get like experts in a subject to write a book. Then they would smuggle them into the jail and then they would just copy them out and then put by whoever. And then say, written 30 days off, please. Oh, they copied their homework. So, for instance, there was a former politician called Georgia Copos who wrote about the matrimonial alliances of medieval Romanian rulers. Didn't no one raise an eyebrow? How can you be writing all this from memory, Georgia? That's very impressive. And there was a guy called Rielly Lobser, who was a pop singer, who went to prison for fraud, who wrote a book about stem cells in dental medicine. And he's already in prison for fraud. You'd think they would be like, I'm not sure you're on the up and up. Isn't that amazing? That's so funny. It's glorious. Service opens doors. And at American Military University, it can open doors for the whole family. If you have a loved one who served in the military, you may qualify for reduced tuition. AMU offers flexible online programs designed to fit your schedule so you can keep moving forward wherever life takes you. Learn more at AMU.APU.edu slash military. Open doors to the future for you and your family with the help of American Military University. Okay, it's time for fact number two. And that is Andy. My fact is, Lake Malawi contains a thousand species of the same kind of fish. One lake, a thousand different species. Big lake, very big lake. Big lake, there are waves. When I first went there, I didn't know lakes could have waves. Oh, really? As in like breakers? Like surfable? They're smaller waves, but I'm sure there are times of the year when it's larger, but it has waves. Wow. And I always thought a lake was like a glorified pond. And I was like, no, this lake is big. It's got beaches. It's got, yeah, it's huge. And it's got a lot of cichlid fishes. More than a thousand species. So this is absolutely bizarre. I mean, they arrived in the lake, you know, one species arrived in the lake maybe three million years ago, some billions of years ago. Why are there so many now? How have they split off into each other? Like you have a type of mouse, right? Comes into an area and then some of them are born here, some of them are born here. And then there's a something goes in between them, some kind of barrier, which means that the ones on one side can't mate with the ones on the other. And eventually they become new species, right? Right. In a lake, how does that work? Like, I know there's waves and everything, but like what is stopping them from mating? Yeah. So there was a study of this and it's a theory, but it's reasonably convincing. There are a few different ideas. One of them was a team of scientists led by Christopher Schultz who looked at this and found that historically the level of the water in Lake Malawi is about 700 metres deep, I think at the deepest. Wow. But it has gone up and down and up and down and up and down. And it's plunged by at least 200 metres, more than 20 times over its history. And so every time that happens, things change in the lake, the shoreline moves, the pH levels change, and sometimes it even splits into smaller lakes before the waters rise again and it's reunited. So if the lake is split into smaller lakes, those fish in each of those smaller areas will split off from each other, spend time, you know, specialising at breeding in among themselves. Yeah. Then suddenly when the lake is reunited, you've got different species. That makes sense. Like that makes some sense to me, but I envision a kind of reverse Tower of Babel kind of situation where the fish were trying to burrow their way down to the almighty and the almighty was like, no! And they all speak different languages now. Well, that's not been tested fully, that theory, but it's a strong idea. It's a strong, yeah. It's good. So this, we should say, it is massive, this lake, right? It's a fifth of Malawi is this lake, basically. It used to be called Lake Nyasa because when the British arrived in Malawi, they called it Nyasa land. And then after independence, we became Malawi. Well, it's also called the Calendar Lake, which is quite a cool name.

[21:00] It's because, roughly, it's 365 miles long and 52 miles wide at its widest, so it's a calendar. Oh, it's a calendar. Yeah, 365 days, 52 weeks, and they say, and I couldn't prove this, but 12 main rivers flow into it as well, so it even breaks down into the months of the year. Probably there's a few more that are like, oh, that one doesn't count, that one doesn't count. But that one, that one's a tricky tree. I think there are a few miles that they're shuffling off as well when they measure it. The fastest swim across Lake Malawi was seven hours, 42 minutes and 47 seconds. What do you think was the fastest swim from top to bottom? So it looks like an exclamation mark, doesn't it? It's 50 miles across and 360. It's longer than this country of Chile. Yes. So seven hours. So some maniac said, so maybe it was 49 hours. It was 63 days. Oh, you can't swim for that long. I know it was in stages. And it was by Martin Hobbs from South Africa, who I'm sure is not a maniac. He's a maniac. He's a maniac. Like all of these people. Like I've met Eddie Izzard, and I was like, you're a madman. Yeah. Like, like, who are these people swimming across things for no reason? Doesn't have crocodiles in it, like Malawi. Does it? It has hippos. It has hippos. Oh, that's worse. Neither is good at the cross. OK, so this is the thing is, if you are near a hippo's child, a hippo is worse than a crocodile. But if you leave the hippo alone and there are no children present, a hippo is a very good. The ones you really have to look out for is the hungry, hungry hippos. Oh, yeah. The absolute worst. They are absolute worst. I read about him, James, the Martin Hobbs guy. So six years before he swam from the top to the bottom of Lake Malawi, he had never swum a mile. Six years before. OK. And he just started. He started. I think he had an injury. I think he was already a sportsman. And then he had an injury which meant he couldn't do his original sport. Right. And then he took to swimming. But isn't that incredible? Just imagine six years from now, we could all be on the northern shore of Lake Malawi. Race. Ready to set off. The fish that are in there, there are some pretty wild varieties. Yeah. There's one which is called the eye biter. Have you heard of the eye biter? And how does it get that name? So basically, they found eyes in its stomach and they think that it's, they don't know if it's eating the eyes as nourishment or if it's taking the eyes out of the predator or the one that it was. The one that it was eating. Of the fish. Yeah, of the other fish. So it eats fish, eats the eyes, therefore it has a better chance of killing it altogether. Right. So you start with the eyes. You start with the eyes. And this leads to the joke, doesn't it? What do you call a fish with no eyes? A fush. Yes. What do you call a fish with no eyes? Demidocromis compressiceps. That's what I call it. There were eyes in that, but it should have been spell D-E. It should have spelled D-E-M. Dem, dem. Yeah, but that behaviour has never been observed in the wild, I read. Exactly. Right. It's a theory. They have found the eyeballs. They've seen the eyes, but they've never seen the... Yeah. That's because, you know, Attenborough has no time to go film Lake Malawi. Here's another one. The sleeper cichlid, which you get in Lake Malawi, it does a thing called thanatosis. And thanatosis is where you pretend to be dead. Oh, yeah. But they do it in a really awesome way. They lie down on the bottom of the sea and they can change the colour to like a blotchy, very sick-looking fish. And so the other fish go past and go, oh, God, he looks a bit sick. They're like, he obviously was feeling terrible before he died. And then they go close to him and then it goes, ta-da! Not dead after all. And then probably bites their eyes out. I'll tell you, I wasn't afraid of Lake Malawi, but this episode made me be like, why do I swim in there? There's also the Malawi squeaker that I found, which is a type of upside-down catfish. Right. Another question. What's an upside-down catfish? Upside-down catfish, they swim upside down so that their mouths are at the top of the water and they can eat bugs that are on the surface. Oh, okay. I thought upside-down catfish is they actually look better than their face. And it's called the Malawi squeaker because when you take it out of the water, it goes, squeak, squeak, squeak. Really? Yeah. Oh, that's amazing. So I've read that it's very clear in Lake Malawi. So you swam in it. How far have you seen giant fish? No, no, no, no. You swim, like when you go to the ocean, you only swim in the shallow area. You don't go way out there. You know what I mean? So I've swam in it, but I've never been more than 50 metres out. Because it's so big, does it feel like you're in the sea? Like, because you can't see the other. It feels like you're in the ocean, but it's not salty. It's, it's, it's, yeah. Interesting. I've read that it gets waves up to six metres high. That's okay. But that's huge. Exactly what I mean, like, it felt like if you knocked me out, I would think I'm at the ocean. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You have special things. It's something called the Mwera winds that come every year in November, December and January that make it basically fishermen can't go out that time either. So it's lots of people go fishing there, but you can't go in those times. But like at the start of November or the end of January, you kind of can do a little bit, but it's a bit dangerous. But if you go out fishing then, no one else is doing it, so you can sell your fish for way more. So that's kind of cool. The risk and reward. Because those were the other names that it was given. David Livingston, who was one of the first people to describe it for the West only, he called it the Lake of Storms and the Lake of Stars because you would see all the light of the fishermen in the distance. And we have an annual festival called Lake of Stars. Oh, lovely. Where all these musicians come and people smoke weed and it's... Oh, this is a fact. Malawi has the best weed in Africa. Really? Malawi gold. It's gold. Everyone goes on about how Malawi has no minerals, but we always say, we've got Malawi gold. That's the intro. We should say that you are, you grew up in Malawi, did you? No, I was a refugee. So my blood is Malawian, but my dad had to flee Malawi because of our dictator. But when I was an adolescent and the dictator was gone, eventually, we went back to Malawi. And so you've got family there still. I've got family there now. And my one brother. Delisa, you may not know, one of the things I do on this podcast is I find any link I can to the First or Second World Wars, no matter what we're talking about. Okay, so there were some Malawi soldiers sent? Well, first naval engagement of the First World War, guys. Lake Malawi. No way. Wow. So exciting. There were at the time roughly two Western boats on Lake Malawi. Unfortunately, one was English and one was German. Right.

[28:00] This was, it was a colonial time, so there were, and the borders of Lake Malawi, it's a few different countries around the other. So basically a British steamer named HMS Gwendolyn, which was named after the daughter of the Marquess of Salisbury. Lovely name for a ship. Very nice. It had one gun on it, I think. And there was a German steamer, which the captains were friends. They were drinking buddies, but the English found out the war was happening slightly before the Germans. So the English just sailed up, opened fire. One shot. The German captain yells, Rhodes, are you drunk? At his friend, who's just opened fire on him. One shot battle, Rhodes then just confiscates the gun, Rhodes, the English captain, confiscates the German gun and no more is said about it. And that was the first naval battle of the First World War. Wow. No more was said about it. You've shot. This is the first time anyone else is hearing about it on this podcast. That's like finding out if you were just sitting in a cafe with your friend and he happened to be German and you read the news before, but you just punched him in the head. Battle over. That's amazing. So Lisa, what's the name that keeps coming up as names of towns and so on in Malawi is David Livingston. Yes. She was the missionary. Yeah. And it sounds like a lot of place names that were colonially named have been changed, but the Livingston ones seem to remain. Well, it's because Livingston is remembered positively. Yeah. Right. So he came, he brought Bibles and stuff. How did he bring them in? But honestly, the tales of him is education and medicine. So he, there was not a hurry to rename his stuff, but like the Rhodes stuff where it's associated with, you know, us being oppressed and being, that's all been renamed. So a lot of the Livingston names, because he's fondly remembered. Blantyre, which is known as the New York of Malawi. That's where Livingston was born in Scotland. Yes, exactly. Are they twinned or not really? I mean, on their Wikipedia, which is where I had a brief look, it said that it's twinned with many places, but not with that town. But there is a statue in Blantyre in Scotland of Livingston fending off a lion attack. And it's designed by Ray Harryhausen. No, is that the monster guy? Wow. So we should say he designed the special effects for all the amazing old films. Like what was it? Jason and the Argonauts. Clash of the Titans. Yeah, those were fantastic. So apparently he was married to a descendant of Livingston. Wow. Yeah. And so he did the statue. That's amazing. There's also Livingstonia in Malawi. He's got quite a few places sort of named after him. Speaking of old sci-fi films, I was reading about someone called the Terminator, who is responsible for the annulment of 3,500 marriages in Malawi. Oh, yeah. So this apparently is someone called Teresa Caching. Oh, this is the child marriage. Yeah. No, no, she's actually absolutely amazing. Isn't that an amazing story? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So essentially, there was a practice of marrying very underage people. And so she campaigned against it her whole life and annulled them and rescued these women. It was amazing. And then educated people in the area about what to do in future and stuff like that. But yeah, known as the Terminator because she terminated so many of these marriages. That's great. Whenever she terminated a marriage, she'd be like, I'll be back. Okay, it is time for fact number three. And that is my fact. My fact this week is that the first ever British spacesuit designed included a cape and a walking stick. Yes. Yes. Wow. This was for floating in space. This, yes. How else are you going to fly in space? Um, it's an extraordinary design that was showcased initially in the 40s in 1949. There's a replica that you can go and visit. I've got a picture here. Deliso, do you want to sort of describe for the listener what it looks like? It looks like a Cylon from Battlestar Galactica. It's absolutely glorious. And for younger listeners, perhaps. I think it looks like Space Shredder from the Ninja Turtles. Space Shredder. But for listeners even younger than that, maybe. Okay, the helmet looks like a knight's helmet. And then the actual baggy suit, it's a cross between a spacesuit and a washing machine. Yes. And there's a glorious silver cape over the shoulder. It's like a, it's a sort of steampunky spacesuit. But also the walking stick is very short. Yes, but because it's a practical walking stick. Now, here's the extraordinary thing. If you saw a picture of this, you would think, my God, this looks so ridiculous. What were they doing? Everything that was designed for this suit was incredibly practical. So to give the background of it very quickly, this was designed by a group called the British Interplanetary Society, the BIS. It was founded in 1933 by Philip Cleater in Liverpool. And it is still to this day the oldest existing organization devoted to the promotion of spaceflight. So there's been older ones, but they're no longer around. So this is the longest lasting. But it's an amazing sounding. The British Interplanetary Society. It sounds insane because we're not used to Britain being a major part of the space race, as indeed it turns out we weren't. We may yet. We may yet. But this spacesuit was really fabulous. So the suit has an airlock inside the chest. So you can pick up a moon rock or whatever it might be, pop it into the airlock. Then inside your suit, kind of take an arm out of the spacesuit, reach in and open the airlock once it's pressurized correctly. So then you've got it in, for whatever reason, inside your suit. It's just such a cool idea. It sounds a bit awkward. It was a bit awkward, probably. That, that did not make it to the spacesuit design. But I think some of these elements were useful. And they were established way before most other space exploration outfits. You know, they were thinking about how we do this in a practical way. Well, that's what's so exciting about this. Every single part of this suit dealt with what was the hypothetical situation of what you would have on the moon. Yeah, so it was designed by two guys, Harry Ross and Ralph Smith. And, for example, the moon has very different temperatures when it's dark and when it's light. So either you design a day and night suit that you can change into, which is so British. Yeah, well, you need something for cocktail hour as well. But what this suit is, what they went for is the all-in-one. So the cape is not some, you know, silly British superhero. Yeah. What that was is to help with the temperature regulation. I actually think England just needs this to start being reissued because on any particular day we have all the weather.

[35:00] I need to make a comeback. That's a great idea. Yes, exactly. So, Deliso, you'll see here there's this sort of aerial that's up here. That's for radio. Radio. So that's how you could radio back to the ship when you're on the moon. It's got like a 1.5 km, I think, distance. Oh, it's brilliant, actually. They were solving all sorts of, so they designed a lunar spaceship as well in 1938, and they proposed a crew of three, a multi-stage rocket, like lots of things that ended up happening in 1969. I think it's like a big what if, isn't it? Of like, basically what happened is, they were going to start doing experiments of rockets, but there was a thing called the Explosive Act of 1875 that meant that private individuals were not allowed to test rocket fuel. And because that was in, they weren't allowed to do their experiments. But if the government had said, okay, you can do it, there's every reason to suggest that we could have gotten into space before anyone. Well, I mean, at least they had practical plans. Zambia, which is a country next to Malawi, they had a misguided attempt to join the space race. Very bonkers guy. I'd have to find his name. But he started training astronauts by putting them in barrels and rolling them. To get them used to being weightless. And it was a really hilarious event where he believed that Zambia could beat America and Russia with a space suit. So we're talking 50s, 60s that this would have happened. Wow. Yeah, and I should just quickly explain that the walking stick, when I said it was practical, is because if you were walking up mountainous bits of the moon, if you were needing to sit down, the suit's not very practical for it. So that is one of those, you turn into a sort of, yeah, a little seat. Arthur C. Clarke was a member of this society. Yes. You know why we have capes in comic books, like superheroes? Oh. Because you don't need a cape to fly, do you? It doesn't make sense at all. Like, you need wings. Yes. Basically, the reason is, a comic book is just a drawing, and you need to show movements of someone flying through the air, and what's the best way of doing that? Having something flapping. Something that flaps. Brilliant. Brilliant. That's great. The first real spacesuits, like, that were actually used, were the Soviet ones, I think. So CH-1 or CH-1, or CH-E1, I suppose it would be. So this was used in the 1930s, and it was because they were going to very, very high altitudes. So they weren't going into space per se, but they were getting balloons really, really high. And this suit, made by a guy called Chertovsky, it had no hinges in the elbows or the knees. And it was basically just, it was almost a barrel, really. It was a barrel with a helmet on, and you would just sort of open a door and walk inside it, and you wouldn't be able to really move or do anything. Stole the idea from Zambia. And then the first actual spacesuit, so the ones that the Soviets used in space, so what Gagarin might have used, for instance. Actually, this was a bit before him because it was a design. It was known as the Scafander Cosmichesky, which meant a diving suit for space. And again, you would just, it was mostly to protect the space person. It wasn't really that useful for doing stuff. But one of the groups of people who were really against the spacesuit were the people who designed the spacecraft because they said that our spacecraft is so good that actually you don't need a spacesuit. Gagarin will be absolutely fine. Risky, isn't it? And for anybody who wants to find out more about what I mentioned, it was 1964, Edward Makukan Kolosa was the one who formed the Zambian space program and would train astronauts by rolling them in barrels. Was it the Faroe Islands who had a space, and I think it might still have a space agency, but they expressly say, we are not trying to get into space. We're gonna maybe, like, try and, like, talk to some satellites, or we're gonna, like, they expressly say, we are not trying to get to the moon, we're not trying to get to Mars, but it's useful to have this funding because you never know what technology is gonna come from it and stuff like that. Well, that makes sense. The Smithsonian, you know, the Washington-based, well, they're all over America, they've got a lot of incredible collections. They've got a big space museum there. Huge space museum. And in Maryland, they have a facility which contains a spacesuit morgue. There are a hundred... Failed designs. The successful ones, actually. All successful ones. But just the spacesuits are not being used anymore. And they have... I read a write-up of it, which sounds so creepy. It's got 150 spacesuits in there. They're all sort of lying on bunks, face up. They all contain soft dummies. And... Oh, really? And I read about... This should be the setting of some horror. It's fantastic. Absolutely. And there's a woman who looks after them, or she did certainly 10 years ago. She was called Amanda Young and said she plays mummy to them. And she says, you know, there's Neil and there's John. You know what, Addy, like, last week we had Nina Conti on the show. I don't know if you know Nina. Yes, I know. But she told us about, or actually Dan told us, but she knew about this place where they had all their old ventriloquist dummies. Like, if someone has died... That's more creepy. I think there's definitely something where you go and visit all these different, really, really creepy places. That's got to be a show. Yes, you're right. They should. We're pitching it right now. The Lisa Chaponda's creepy-ass places. Yeah. Good? Sounds good. Okay, cool. 20%. There are still developments happening in spacesuit world. Oh, yeah. So right now, something is being worked on which is very sci-fi-based. It's to solve the problem that at the moment, if you do a spacewalk, you wear what's called a maximum absorbency garment, which is a fancy way of saying a nappy. Yes. It can take two litres of urine, which is a lot. How much salts are in it and could it take? It can take 12 copies of the Gulag Archipelago. Yeah. But it's really uncomfortable to wear one of those, especially if you're out there all day working on something on the outside of a space ship, you know. So, and it can give you a rash. It can leak. Astronauts say that at a certain point, they can no longer tell if it's urine or sweat in their suit. It's really... It's really unpleasant. It's so uncomfortable being out there. It's an incredibly harsh environment. It's not as glamorous as you think, is it? It's not as glamorous as you think. And you wee loads in space because... Do you? Well, the gravity difference means that the fluid moves differently in your body and it's physically very demanding and you're sweating and we... It's just... It's awful. Okay. Wait, though. They're working on a suit now which is going to be drinkable water from urine in practically real time. Oh, okay. I would argue still not that glamorous. Your brain has to go around that hurdle. Oh, yeah, it does. But this is basically like they have in Dune. You know, in Dune they have a still suit and it keeps... Sorry, good point. They wear...

[42:00] It's like in Battlestar Galactica. No, okay. It's... The idea is, um, if you make a suit which takes every bit of water from your sweat, urine, everything, and instantly turns into something that you drink, so you can walk and be in the desert for a very long time or in space. Exactly. And this is, they've now got it so that half a litre of urine can become water in as little as five minutes. Do they add some... I would put a little bit of cordial in there at least, I think, like, just to take the edge off. And then you're like, that's why it's yellow. I'm excited. Yes, that sounds very good. Well, that was one of the... just to bring it back to this original suit again. Um, it did everything. It had extra mittens that you would put on. They thought of everything. The one thing they did not think of was to add anything that dealt with faeces or urine. And so there was absolutely nothing as part of the design. I think in Britain we don't need to worry about those kind of things. Yes, the Dune novels are very silent on what happens to the faeces in your still suit. Are they? Well, I mean, I'm sure someone will email podcast at QI.com to correct me. No one needs that chapter. No one needs that chapter. No one was reading and was like, that's what's missing. I'm just amazed they did any editing at all when I look at those books. The other thing about spacesuits is they often don't fit, right? Because they have to make them and they don't necessarily, or certainly in the olden days, they didn't make them for each person because you didn't know who was going to do the trip. So, you know, Neil Armstrong's spacesuit was made for someone Neil Armstrong-ish. This is why Vin Diesel never became a successful astronaut. Sure. He wanted to be one. Oh, no, I'm just saying. Oh, no, it was just a joke. I thought it was like a little thing we didn't know. Is he particularly differently shaped? He must be quite muscly, mustn't he? Is he? Yeah, I'm thinking of The Rock. I meant to say The Rock. You think of The Rock, The Rock wouldn't work. Vin Diesel's big as well. No, I'll jump in. He's a muscular type. He's no The Rock, though, is he? Oh, no, he's no Dwayne Johnson. Please. Space Rock. Space Rock. But this is really interesting, a thing called the jaggedness principle. And basically, if you take, like, Okay, I've got to work out how big my head is, right? Okay, it's this many inches, and my nose is this long, and my shoulders are this big, and my little finger's this big, and my big toe's this big. When you put all those different things together, no one is average. Oh, because everyone's unique. Okay, I've got you. Yeah, exactly. And so they did a thing in the 1940s where they were looking at the cockpits of pilots, and they took 10 body measurements from a population of 4,000 pilots and found that zero of them were in the average range for absolutely everything. And so some of them would have been like, Oh, this seat's a little bit tight on my bum. And then some of them were like, Oh, this cockpit's a little bit low. I can't really fit my thing in. And that's something that you have to deal with all the time. Yeah. That's interesting. Roald Dahl writes about being a pilot of very elderly, maybe biplanes. I think it was a Gloucester Gladiator he was flying. And he was six foot four. Wow. And you were meant to be about five foot 10 to fly these things. And he just had, he was just like an accordion folded up in the cockpit. He just writes about being so uncomfortable in there. Yeah. Because what do we, what do you say about you, Andy? You've got a, is it a long torso or a... No, I keep my height in my legs. You keep your height in your legs. My height's in your legs. I tell these guys every week, Deliso, and they never listen. They never remember. This is what you have in common with The Rock. Absolutely. He's too muscly for planes. And you keep the height. Where do you keep it? I keep my height in my legs. In your legs. Sorry. For some reason, he's not written back about my double act buddy comedy idea yet. Muscly and legs. One guy's really strong. One guy's got big legs. Not big legs, just long legs, really. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What a crime fighting team we would make. Dwayne, if you are listening, please do get in touch. I need to lift up this car from this baby on the floor. Oh, well, I need to step over that gate. Service opens doors. And at American Military University, it can open doors for the whole family. If you have a loved one who served in the military, you may qualify for reduced tuition. AMU offers flexible online programs designed to fit your schedule so you can keep moving forward wherever life takes you. Learn more at AMU.APU.edu slash military. Open doors to the future for you and your family with the help of American Military University. Okay, it is time for our final fact of the show. And that is Jenks. Okay, my fact this week is that the last Queen album released while Freddie Mercury was alive was named after his favorite words to play at Scrabble. Amazing. Fantastic. Bohemian Rhapsody. No, that wasn't an album, was it? Probably. So I was looking for Scrabble facts because, Deliso, I read an interview where you say that you rarely lose at Scrabble. I'm very good at Scrabble. I'm a Scrabble maniac. Are you? Are you? I always play Scrabble. And I was mentioning earlier that, like, when I did Britain's Got Talent, they were like, oh, you're African. We should have a big African background for you. You know what I mean? And we'll design like this. I was like, no, no, no, that's nothing to do with my personality. Scrabble! So I literally have a Scrabble board with my name on it as my background because I'm such a Scrabble fanatic. And also, in Scrabble, there's only one letter X, so you can't get the three Xs. Ah, very smart. Thank you. So rarely said in this podcast, Deliso, thank you. Britain's Got Talent, yeah. So I was looking for Scrabble facts, and I found that Queen liked to play it when, or liked to play it when they were on tour. And also that the games used to get quite heated. Not quite as rock and roll as you imagine, you know what I mean? Like, backstage activity playing Scrabble, even heated, is very, like... But you've got to do something after the cocaine wears off and after the orgy has wound down, you know. You've got to bide the time. Absolutely. So, yeah, once the orgies have wound down, um, so I was reading a biography of Freddie Mercury called A Kind of Magic by Mark Blake. And in that, he said that innuendo was one of Freddie's favorite words to use, presumably because it has lots of vowels in it. Yes. And that was what gave him the name. But also, like, I can't imagine it comes up a lot. Innuendo. As it were. Well, you know what? Actually, Deliso, before we came on air, we were talking about our different Scrabble techniques. But you said that you have a special rule for your Scrabble. Oh, yes. When I play with my close friends, if you put in a dirty word, any sexual word or any word that could be used in a dirty context, you get double points. Right. And so, but how do you, do you have a dictionary of dirty words? No, no, no. You just have to explain to the other person that it's dirty. Because most of them are butts and stuff like that. But if...

[49:00] If you put in a word which is debatable whether it's dirty, you have to use it in a sentence to explain why it's actually very good. Do you guys know as you're Scrabble heads, what you would get numbers-wise, points-wise within innuendo if you didn't land on any triples or just those points? I feel like it'd be quite low-scoring because the vowels are low. I think the D must be worth two, is it? It is indeed. So it'd be one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Nine is correct. Now, innuendo isn't the only Scrabble word that is a Queen album that you can use because there's two other Queen albums. There's Queen, their self-titled first album. That would be a lot of points. That is a lot of points. 14? 15, 14. 14. But the one that's going to get you most is their album Jazz. Yes. Very nice. But you have to use a blank for that because there's only one Z. Oh, is there? Interesting. But Che is eight, is it? Oh, yeah, that'd be 19. Pretty good. And it would be 29 if you, but you can't, as you say, use a second one. Now, interestingly as well... And also, actually, Jazz mags have sexy people in them, so it's double points. It's double points! I don't know if that would work. Jizz would work. But Jazz, it wouldn't be double points. Very vague. Well, here's another thing. Here's another thing for a band that loves Scrabble. Now, if the four of us were playing Scrabble right now, not a single one of us has a name that is a Scrabble word. However, three of the four Queen members were Scrabble words. Were they? What? Freddie Mercury. Mercury. Mercury is a word. You've got Brian May. May works. And then the bass player Deacon. Oh, yes! A Deacon in church. A Deacon in church, yeah. Dan is a word, D-A-N. This is belting in martial arts. Oh, very good. Which one is a Japanese word? I think it's in our dictionary. OK. That's the other thing about Scrabble, is actually, in the official rules, it says before you start, you have to decide what dictionary you're using. Right. So you could use any dictionary you wanted, if you wanted. You could use Green's Dictionary of Slang and just have rude words. Yes, yes. Yeah, my Schreiber would be, in a German game of Scrabble, would be applicable. Hunter in a British context, if we used your middle name. Yeah, that's right, yeah. So anyway, Mercury is 14. You've got Deacon at 9, and then you've got May at 8. And then, unfortunately, Taylor, who is Roger Taylor, doesn't apply because it's not spelt. It's spelt with a Y instead of an I. Unless you accept place names, in which case there is an American town called Taylor, and then that could apply. But again, it depends on your rules. There is an extra Queen album that you haven't mentioned, Dan. Oh, yeah? Freddie Mercury's stamp album, which was another of his hobbies. Oh, he collected stamps? He collected stamps. It was bought by the British Postal Museum in 1993. Really? Yeah, he was a big stamp collector, as was John Lennon. Wait a minute, isn't there a fact about them being on a stamp? Yes, there is. Brian May was the only living person or something? Roger Taylor, the drummer, is the only living person to appear on a stamp because you have to be dead in order to be on a stamp. So Freddie is in the front of it, and there's... No, no, no, no, no. But when the Queen was alive, it wasn't a few stamps. Oh, other than a royal. Oh, other than a royal. OK, OK. Sorry, I've been pedantic, but yes, I see your point. So in a very vague, misty way, you can see Roger Taylor in the back, and so he's the only living person. They've loosened it a bit, haven't they? They do special. Oh, probably now, yeah. Nothing's like it used to be. I read an interview with Mark Nyman, who was the first British player to ever win the World Scrabble Championships, who was speaking to The Observer. And he said that every week he hears about some other celebrity who plays Scrabble. So Robbie Williams, Sting, Christina Aguilera, Avril Lavigne. And Mark Nyman said there should be a celebrity Scrabble. So I'm thinking the Lisa Chopra celebrity Scrabble. I'm in. I'm in. But I'd wanna play... I'll tell you, this is the problem, is you get invited on all these shows and you think you're there to play, and they just want you to do silly stuff. And I'm like, I wanna play. I was invited on the countdown and I was ready. I spent the whole week training myself and getting better. Like, no, no, no, we just want you on library corner. And I was like, no, let me play! That's a shame. Nerdy rock stars? All right, yeah. Once you get very famous, let's say if you're a rockstar, you have a lot of money. You often have a lot of space. You have a lot of time because you're on, you do on stage at eight. And also, because you've spent your childhood in your bedroom on your own learning how to play guitar, you're often quite nerdy, I think. Like, quite a lot of the musicians that I know, for instance, are kind of on the nerdy side, aren't they? Absolutely. Well, Bruce Dickinson of Iron Maiden, who you're familiar with, James, you know him, fences. I know he does. Was once ranked, and that's fences in the tennis. Fences are not necessarily nerdy. It's a weapon. No, and also Bruce likes to fence with a lightsaber. Do you know how? That's nerdy. That is really nerdy. And you're going to get hurt. Now you're pointing the nerdy. You're going to get hurt. It's not real. It's not real. When it was an epee, that's not... Yeah. So there's four official swords that you can use in modern fencing, and it's the epee, the sabre, the foil, and the lightsaber. The lightsaber's now official? It's official, yeah. And Bruce got one of the... I need to start watching this. Bruce got one of the first, like, official lightsabers that you used in competition. I watched, this is a total aside, but I watched combat juggling. If you ever have a chance to see this, it's two jugglers facing off. They have to constantly juggle, but they can knock each other's batons out with another baton, and they can distract. It was amazing. And it's a whole big sport. It was in, like, a high school arena kind of thing. And I was just like, there's sports you didn't even know exist. OK, what am I talking about here? Rod Stewart's is enormous. Neil Young has a special name for his. Pete Waterman has displayed his in Chester Cathedral. And Jules... And Jules Holland's stretches from London to Berlin. Does it? Yes. I think I know because, very famously... Yeah, they have enormous penises. Yeah. No, the first one I got it as well, I think. What is it? Model railway. Oh, model railway. Yes, yes. Wait, but how can you have a model railway which stretches from one place to another? Well, the model is a model of the journey to London. Oh, the journey. But Pete Waterman, who's the producer behind Kylie Minogue and Rick Astley and Steps, yeah, the biggies, recently built a 20-meter model railway for Chester Cathedral. Wow. I just find it so... He spends hours making fake trees. He has a massive model of Leamington railway station, which is where he train-spotted as a boy. I just think it's so charming. Yeah. I love it. Speaking of Pete Waterman, you just mentioned, do you know who is an absolute Scrabble fiend? Kylie Minogue. Really? Yes. And this is according to Salman Rushdie. I would love to see this game. That's actually on page 16. Salman Rushdie's Kylie. On page 16 of...

[56:00] He goes into a game of Scrabble with Kylie. Apparently he plays Scrabble with her, or certainly did for a while. He tweeted about it. She wrote rematch as a reply to his tweet. He used to hang with her, apparently. There were rumors that Salman Rushdie used to play Twister with Kylie and Danny Minogue. But he said, I never played it. I would just watch as they played. That is amazing. Good grief. Sorry, what? So Kylie's obsessed with Scrabble. She plays Scrabble a lot. No, we were thinking of the other thing. Right. Yeah. Twister? I suppose you've got to while away the long hours in hiding, haven't you? I think it was in that period as well. During the fatwa? I believe it was. What a way to assassinate Salman Rushdie. That would have been. Also, that's what he should have told the people who had the fatwa on him. This is what I'm doing right now. But we've got to work out where Salman Rushdie is because we want to assassinate him for the Satanic Verses. What's the least possible likely thing imaginable he could be doing? Well, he could be playing Twister with Kylie and Danny Minogue. No, no, no. OK, that's it. That is all of our facts. Thank you so much for listening. If you'd like to get in contact with any of us about the things that we've said over the course of this podcast, we can all be found online. I'm on at Schreiberland on Instagram. James. My Instagram is no such thing as James Harkin. Andy. At Andrew Hunter M. Yep. Deliso, are you online? Yes, I'm on everything. I'm AfricanComedian.com and Deliso Chaponne on everything else. And you're on tour right now. I'm on tour. I'm doing a show called Topical Storm. The show changes every week because it's updated with the headlines. Fantastic. And so, yeah, so go to your website, go to your Instagram and so on. They'll be able to find the dates. It's all across the UK. So go check it out now. You can also write in to us as a group. Podcast at QI.com. Send us all of your favourite facts that you've discovered because we will cherry pick the best of those and bring them to our Monday show, Little Fish, where we get to read them all out. Or if you send us just general feedback about the show, interesting experiences you've had and so on, those will be taken to our behind-the-scenes show, Drop Us a Line, which is part of Club Fish. Club Fish is a Patreon place where you can do multiple different tiers. There are lots of different rewards. We have a quiz coming up for the highest tier, Friend of the Podcast, April 14th. So join if you want to be part of that. And just check it out generally. Otherwise, just come back here next week because we are going to be back with another episode. Thank you as ever to our team, Ling Li and Ethan Ruperellia, as well as the bigger fish buster crew. And we'll see you again next week. Goodbye. Goodbye.
